The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
Although the Hezb-i-Islami and the Pakistani Foreign Office had responded to the news of the military uprising on the first day, the rest of the world made cautious statements towards the end of the second day.
President Mujaddedi of the defunct AIG said that the AIG was remaining neutral in this example of infighting between PDPA factions but that, in any case, the Mujahideen should take advantage of the situation by intensifying their attacks.
The U.S. Foreign Office stated that the military uprising displayed that the Afghan people wished to see peace return to Afghanistan and that Najib’s departure was of paramount importance in the Afghan solution.
Moscow’s official statement was that the situation in Kabul implied a regrettable set-back to the “national reconciliation” process where it seemed that peace efforts had been gaining ground.
On March 8, fighting again broke out in the streets of Kabul, at the airport, and continued at Bagram Airbase. However, Najib held a press conference that afternoon to prove that he was still alive and to declare that the
uprising had been suppressed.
On March 9, Kabul Airport, also called Khaja Rawash Airport, was back in Gen. Najib’s hands and was said to be again receiving flights of supplies from Moscow.
An arms depot in the center of Kabul, called Koloula Pushta, was destroyed on March 10 causing an unknown number of casualties, as the news of this blow-up was suppressed. It is believed to have been sabotaged from within, rather than hit by aerial bombing.
It has been estimated that 200 civilians and400 military personnel were killed in Kabul during the week of the coup bid. About 20 tanks and 30 planes were also destroyed. The planes represent 30% of the planes which the Kabul regime normally maintains in its airforce.
On March 11, Gen. Najib sent a message to ex-king Zahir Khan requesting his assistance in the “national reconciliation” program.
Gen. Shahnawaz Tanai held a press conference in Logar on March 14 and stated that he opposed Najib because his ruthless policy toward any opposition was prolonging the bloodshed in
Afghanistan and his national reconciliation plan was a sham. Tanai denied that he himself was seeking power and pointed to the fact that he gave up a very powerful post as Defence Minister to side with the Mujahideen and the Afghan nation.
On March 15, Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, while addressing a graduation ceremony, outlined the events of the military uprising in Kabul and how it failed to topple the Najib regime due to Russian support, but Najib’s downfall was now inevitable.
Ex-King Zahir Khan replied to Najib on March 18 that the Kabul PDPA government lacks legitimacy and that the Communists should not be part of the future government of Afghanistan, even on a short-term basis.
On March 18, Gen. Najib announced that 24 senior leaders of the PDPA and six high-ranking army officers were sacked from the party’s Cencom for their involvement in the uprising and were arrested to be tried by a special tribunal. The leaders removed constitute about one-fifth of the Cencom members. At least 600 other Afghans were also arrested on suspicion of participation in the uprising.
On April4,an Afghan pilot who had been arrested for his role in bombing the Presidential Palace and other government installations in Kabul escaped to Pakistan along with his brother from the WAD to whom he was unknowingly handed over for interrogation following his capture. Both supplied details of the March 6 military uprising which verified the reports already received from Gen. Tanai and other leaders of the uprising. They also reported very kind assistance from commanders of several different Mujahideen parties as they made their escape by land across Afghanistan.
Page 8