Muslims united to help the Muslims
Continued from page 14
ment which was hanrTpd down by Mi. Nager was quashed and he resigned.
The temptation has always been there to turn the mosque over to the Hindus and on December 23, 1979 a group of Hindus attacked the mosque smashing doors and windows and installing idols.
The Muslims reacted vehemently and after six days of violence and looting the Government closed the mosque again, depriving the Muslims of their due rights.
On February 1, 1986 a Faiza-bad court judge, Mr. K. M. Pundi, a Hindu, ruled that the mosque be re-opened and given to the Hindus again.
The students of Aligarh University went on strike and the Government once more ordered its closure. The Muslims of Uttar Pradesh declared a black day in protest at the court's decision and in Delhi Imam Bukhari of the Shahi mosque declared a day of mourning and grief to be marked by protests and demonstrations.
Muslims all over Kaupur and Allahabad staged demonstrations
against the court's ruling. So far at least 13 people have been killed and hundreds of others wounded in the protests which are continuing.
To satisfy the Hindus the Government has ordered the closure of 300 mosques.
In another development the Indian courts, in contempt of Islamic law, have now issued verdicts on the well-known Shah-banu case, a divorce hearing which has hurt not only the feelings of the Indian Muslims but also Mus-
lims throughout the world.
The truth is of course that discrimination against Muslims is not restricted to India and the Hindus — all over the world Allah's enemies are discriminating against us, either through violence or more subtle forms of persecution.
In Afghanistan the Russians are committing genocide, butchering Muslims in their thirst for power. In Palestine and Lebanon the Zionists and American imperialists are decimating our people. Likewise systematic measures are being taken in Syria, the Philippines, Indonesia and Libya to suffocate the Ummah.
A recent speech by the Imam of Shahi mosque in Delhi was well timed. He said that the Muslims of the world were asleep and were not helping the downtrodden Muslims of India against the Hindu onslaught.
If the 100,000,000 Muslims of the world united then neither the social imperialists, the western imperialists nor their puppets and their proxies would have the guts to tyrannize the Muslim masses.
against the Hindu Governments barbarism; to help the Palestinians and Lebanese against the Zionists and their godfathers; and if these Islamic nations forced their Governments to cut relations with all imperialist and Zionist governments, then this challenge would be effectively met within a few months.
We appeal to the Muslims of the world, particularly those in India, to unite and make ready to fight the enemies of Islam and humanity, to keep their Islamic identity and refrain from serving other "isms”. They should wholeheartedly devote themselves to the cause of Islam and sink all their trivial differences.
We consider the defence of the Indian Muslims incumbent on us and appeal to the Governments of the Islamic countries to exert pressure on the Hindu government to desist from descrating the mosque in Bihar and to respect Islamic laws and traditions.
The Mujahideen Monthly
19