The Mujahideen, September, 1991 Mm
		
I	III *	ISLAMIC MOVEMENTS AND THEIR FUTURE
I'ninsl;ilal Irom I'rdu by Mian hiqir Ahtnail
The real achievement of Islamic movements
At the advent of the 20th century Islam was in a very poor state in the world. The Hadith of our prophet Mohammad (PBUH), that.’Tn the beginning Islam was unfamiliar to the people and in the future again, Islam will become unfamiliar to the people”, aptly described the situation in which religion of Islam was placed. At the most Muslim scholars were serving Islam through presenting apologies in the face of western civilization. But the general public, on the contrary, were fully devoted to their religion. The problem was how to chanelise their love with religion. It was neither the task of a demagogue nor of a philosopher. It involved a long term strategy and leadership quality.
The difficult and complex task of starting the Islamic movement	was
accomplished by Maulana Maudodi in the Indian subcontinent and Imam Hasnal Bana in Egypt. Besides them, in this field some other personalities also played their part though their efforts remained confined to their own regions and problems.
They are for instance, Abdul Hamid Bin Badis in Algyria, Badiuzzaman Norsi in Turkey and Shikh Ahmad Alzahavi in Iraq. Those were the men who brought Islam to the mainstream. Islam was thought to be a mere theory, they introduced it as
a solution of all practical problems of the world. They told the people that Islam has a civilization, nay, the best civilization of the world. Those people were different from their contemporaries in a great respect, namely, they showed the world that Islam is not a mere bunch of ri tuals but a complete code of li fe. Not only that, they also prepared enthusiastic workers who are busy now to attain the goal of making Islam the driving force of the civilization. They are working for Islamic revolution.
What is the Islamic revolution?
A civilizational revolution is not a job of days, months or years. It is the name of a long process for change. To remove the effects of the dominant civilization, to prepare human beings who go against the present wave in all walks of life and with the help of such human beings to create a society
fashioned fully on the Islamic values and injunctions. That is what we call an Islamic revolution.
Two ways to the destination
To reach the destination of the Islamic revolution the Islamic movements have taken a two-way approach for the purpose. One is the individual reformation approach and the second is the collective reformation approach. The individual approach says that since society is the total sum of individuals comprising it, so to reform and purify the individuals would result in the reformation and purification of the whole society automatically. The collective approach, on the other hand, suggest that individual reformation alone will not work because institutions like Government, judiciary, banks, media and educational institutions would affect the individual purification negatively.
Therefore, it holds, to reform