The Mujahideen, October/ November, 1991 mmmmmmmmmmm Page 07 WWWMBWWS
exploiting the Gulf crisis. The obvious purpose of these demonstrations was to support Saddam Hussain but the real purpose was to weaken despotic governments in some countries. From the observations of Robert B.' Oklay, the former US Ambassador to Pakistan which was published in the daily "The News" the following facts could be deduced i.e. he has warned that anti-American sentiments in some Islamic countries are on the rise, anger against the United States is visible among the Muslims which is a result» of the US support for Israel and, at the end, he has come up with a suggestion to solve the above problems.
Oklay’s observations could be analysed as follows:
He observes that anti-American feelings in the Muslim world is a dangerous' signal to US interests the world over. He urges American government and non-government organizations to work together in order to prevent such anti-American feelings in the Islamic countries. Therefore, according to him the Americans should try to improve their image as to show that they are not enemies of Islam and the Muslims.
Efforts to convene a Middle East peace conference to resolve Arab-Israeli conflict and to return , some occupied Palestinian land is primarily targeted at appeasing Muslims and could be considered as an indication of the so-called US friendship with them. According to this Ameircan diplomat the other thing which Ameirca h<(s,to fear is the political awareness/of Muslim nations. By this he wants to confess to the fact .that the Muslin massed will no longer let their fate be
determined by imperialists who colonise them through one-man rule.
Through his observations he forewarns the US and other powers of the existence of a threat to their imperialistic designs for the exploitation of other nations' resources. To him they have to develop new formulas to achive their objectives. The overwhelming desire of majority of Muslims to implement Islam in every walk of their life, is considered another dangerous signal to the United States and other imperialistic forces, because in establishing Islamic government Muslims will no longer imitate the footsteps of the Kuffar (infidels).
He further maintains that the sensitivity and anger of the Muslims against the United States is visible which is a result of the US support for the Jewish state. He points out indirectly to the US administration to deal with Israel rather secretly. Apparently George Bush’s refusal to grant a $ 10 billion loan to Israel is an attempt to decrease the Muslims’ hatred towards the US. To counter these anti-American feelings all over the Muslim world he puts forward the following solutions:
Firstly, the US government should counter the Muslim intelligentsia and Ulema, “religious scholars” who introduce America as a great Satan and the real enemy of Islam. The United States should take preventive measures to eliminate or at least minimise these propaganda threats against! its interests, but it is quite unlikely that it could achieve its objectives completely.
{Secondly, America should by whatever means possible try to change the mentality of the Muslim masses and to project itself as a good ally of Islamic countries.
Thirdly, the US should try to deminish the important role played by Islamic movements in awakening the Muslim masses.
Fourthly, the US should eradicate the religious influence on the Muslim struggles for independence, establishing justice, equality and brother-hood among the Islamic countries. To achieve this end, America is out to brand the Afghan Jihad,the Kashmiris Islamic struggle and the Palestinian Intifada as mere nationalistic, racial or civil strifes. The US also wants to help the moderate and liberal parties in the Islamic countries so as to chanllenge the advances of the genuine Muslim movemments.The American diplomat also stresses the point that, America should do its best in reducing anti-U$ feelings which have been created by the Gulf conflict. The formerUS ambassador is fearful of independence of the Central Asian Muslim republics. He considers their independence a step forward in strengthening the Muslim world . He indirectly urges the US and USSR governments to prevent this to happen. This is because Central Asia once was a great centre of tearing and a symbol of Muslim civilisation and no doubtit will regain its leadership role when it is fiilly independent. At the end, this American diplom at suggests that the Ikhwan-ul-muslimeen along with other Islamic movements associated with it should be suppressed by whatever means available. We Muslims should be ready to face the challenges and inroads of different enemies of Islam particularly that of the Zionists with stem resistance. For us it is an obligation to defend Islam, the tenitorieal integrity of all Muslims and the dignity of the entire Ummah. .
Translation:	Sayed A"Nasr"
i