rotting on the trees (the remainder is sold locally)
Withdrawal of export licences is far from the only trick up Israel's sleeve Another is the tax sweep. Before dawn. Israeli troops seal off a town or village, then go round demanding to see identity cards When the person produces his ID. it is confiscated. He can only recover it by going to an office where Jewish tax collectors present him with a heap of bills for overdue payments and future estimates Should he refuse or be unable to pay. they distrain from his property; the army seizes his car. fridge, even valuables in lieu of taxes Now. in the Gaza Strip, the Israelis are even levying a special tax on cars 25.000 car owners have been sent letters informing them they must change their licence plates, for which a fee ranging from S70 to S300 is charged The Israelis confiscate driving licences at checkpoints, when a person goes to recover his driver's licence, he is told it cannot be returend unless he obtains clearance from the customs and excise department One man has even been ordered to pay $1,500 in rates on a factory that closed down two years ago before he can get his licence back.
By means such as these the Israelis are seeking to counteract the effect of the Arab tax boycotts, which has cut Israeli revenue in the occupied territories by as much as 50 percent. The israelis also have another way of retaliating: they cut the social services and close down hospitals and clinics Businessmen either have to pay their taxes or face closure Arabs receive in any case only
elementary health care, specialised treatment is usually available only in Israeli hospitals, unless, of course, one can afford $150 a day for a bed or have insurance
Military commanders resort also to arbitrary cutting-off of electrical supply and telephone lines, imposing restrictions on travel and foreign capital and even interfering with food supplies.	The civil
administrators, for their part, have not been idle. They have suspended welfare payments and cut back all development projects This entails laying off employees in large numbers
After medical care, the area most affected in the social services has been education Wholesale closure of schools and universities reflects the youth of the stone-throwers Schools had been closed for a period of four months; now both primary and secondary schools have been closed again All universities have been shut drvA'n nre December Muslims are already discriminated
against educationally and in job opportunities. These measures are intended, by striking at the morale of the resistance, to aggravate a situation already deplorable. With shops open only three hours a day. all development frozen and factories working at only half capacity, the gross domestic product in the West Bank and Gaza has dropped by around 25 percent. Israel is relying on grim economic realities to break the people's morale but in so doing forgets that Israelis inured to luxury are less likely to put up with the effects of such resistance than are Arabs, for whom hardship has become a way of life.
Typical of Israeli punitive methods is the closure of the Inash al-Usrah (Family Rehabilitation Society) al-Birah on the West Bank. In ash al-Usrah was one of the best run Palestinian	charitable
foundations, it was founded in 1965 by an energetic lady. Umm Khalil, with a capital of only $330 It grew into a formal multifaceted organisation with
A Palestinian Mujahid with his latest arm, the catapulatc, trying to shoot on the Zionist troops.
The Mujahideen Monthly
36
November 1988