The Mujahideen, Octobe' I November, 1991
Page 4i
with our Muslim brothers all around the world to build up powerfully and contribute our own small quota to international Islamic rennaisancc.
We know for sure that what had happened to us and to our fathers was a result of our deeds, of what we have done by our hands, this fact is thought to us by the Holy Qur’an. We and our fathers had missed and forgotten some important parts of Islam related to Jihad, education, power economy, politics, and so on and adopted only a part of Islam. Only that we were in trouble because we did not adopt Islam as a whole. Again praise be to Allah that we are now understanding our past mistakes, may Allah forgive us and our fathers. We are now trying our best to adopt Islam properly.
4 A Tale of Arrogance^
<^Abu Abdur-RahmarT>
Islam is essentially based on faith as well as practice, and reality revolves round truth and justice. Whenever a community is honestly devoted to Islam, accepting the commandments of Allah as a way of life to be followed, using the Sunnah of His messenger as light to guide, they benefit themselves and need not tell the world that Islam is the best before other nations confer on them their proper places as leaders of all races.
In USSR there are four departments for Muslim religious affairs since 1944 in the era of Stalin. But since then till now these departments had done no important service for the Muslims. Those departments were tools in the hands of the governments to collect Muslims' money and not more. They have never performed any effort to preach or spread Islam. When young Muslims, who understood Islam properly found that those departments are of no use to Islam, they decided all over USSR to do some thing, to work together and propagate Islam all over USSR. On the sides of river Volga at the town of Esterkhan, South Russia, they met and established an Islamic party which they called, “Islamic Nahdha Party” and they have chosen Dr. Ahmad Qadi from Daghistan to be its leader and , its Amir.
The main goals of the party are to renew the understandings of the Qur’an and the Sunnah and to fight all innovations (Beda) as well as to explain and spread Islam to all people every where around us in USSR in a proper way. We want to do the same as done by prophet Muhammad peace be upon him. We know that we are going to face many obstacles from the stale and from our Muslim brothers who had forgoLlen their main Islam ic duties. We will face many obstacles but this is natural for any body who wants to guide the people to the right path.
The support of Muslims all over the world is badly needed. We need Muslim scholars, as all our Muslim scholars have been killed, and we have none as at now. We have to bring up a new generation of Muslim scholars so that they can carry out the duties of leading the people. We will send students to Muslim countries to study Islam. We need books, magazines, Islamic publications so that weean share ideas with the Muslim world and their activities.
We need political support from the Muslim world so that we can re-establish our own identity. The party made the necessary plans to activate Islam in the hearts and minds of all the Muslims in USSR in all aspects of life. We will be having a special department for each branch of activities: education, > politics, economics, propagation, etc. May Allah support us to achieve our goals.**
Nuh complained to his Lord:-
"...Then I said; seek the forgiveness of your Lord; for He is the Most forgiving. He would send the sky on you abundantly (i.e. rain) and would strengthen you with children (i.e capital and man-power). Likewise provides you with gardens (i.e. agriculture) and grant you rivers (i.e. poly-hydro potentialities) (Nuh 1:10-12).
But if the community is such that takes the commandments of Allah for jokes and ridicules, even though there is a verbal profession of Islam as a faith, if the society is such that believes in part of the message and substitutes the other pans with one or more of these satanic ideologies of our time, then its tales of woe linger for ever. Allah the Glorious wams:-
"How many a nation was insolent against the commandment of Us Lord and His Apostle For this we called her to account - an accounting stringent (indeed) and punished her—A punishment frightful (to see). So she tasted the repercussion of her affair. But the consequence of her case was a loss.” (Al-Talaq 65:8-9).
<*
Sorrowful it is that this Divine warning has not been heeded by today's so-called superpowers. Relying so much on advanced techological developments, they are not prepared to see what is beyond the graveyards. The repercussion of this obstinacy is a world of class conflicts, as much as a community of injustice and savagery.
With crooked diplomatic juggery, the evils of the spiritual perversion in the West is transmitted to other less developed countries. The effect is much predictably : Poverty is married to ignorance and people spend their lives under socio-political systems worst than the Babylonian and pharaonic oppressions. The word of Allah find its fulfilment in reality. Allah has not wronged any, but people are the ones quite unjust to themselves. Men of understanding should take heed. Please Contemplate #