The Mujahideen, September, 1991	•-	•'Page	05
NEGATIVE SYMMETRY
HEKMATYAR CRITICAL OF U.S ROLE
expressed doubts over the accord on negative symmetry between the two superpowers and termed it a plot to deceive Mujahideen and to further isolate them internationally.
Maulvi Mohammad Yonus Khalis, the chief of his own faction of Hezb-i-Islami in an interview on Saturday said that after the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, Moscow has been making all out efforts to increase the credence of the puppet regime of Kabul. This is due to this policy of
USSR, the puppet regime has sometimes been appealing for ceasefire and some times for national reconciliation or negotiations etc. to boost its image up.
He said that had the two
The chief of Hezbi-Islami Afghanistan, Engineer Gulbaddin Hekmatyar has blamed Washington for continuation of Moscow’s military aid to the Najib regime for another winter.
“This itself speaks of the
malign intentions of US, because Americans believe that the continuation of military supplies to the puppet regime during the next fall will guarantee its survival as Mujahideen will not be able to take action against the puppet regime the puppet regime due to incliminate weather” he remarked.
Gulbaddin Hekmatyar maintained that the date for the cessation arms has been set for January next year in a bid to give a new life to the puppet regime of
In a wireless interview from
Afghanistan with Afghan News Agency on Saturday, he said that for a long time he had been demanding an end to the US intervention in the Afghan affairs, enabling its people to determine their future themselves.
He said, Moscow’s
agreement on negative symmetry speak the truth that Soviet were ready to put an immediate end to the
military supplies to Kabul, but the US seemed unwilling just because they had no alternative for Najib and had the supplies stopped to the regime it might have resulted in his removal and establishment	of
Mujahideen government in Afghanistan. He said that Washington never seemed inclined to such a change and for that reason it ventured to force Moscow to continue aid to Kabul till January next year.
Kabul, but God willing the will not last longer as Mujahideen were determined to take a befitting action against it.
A large number of other Mujahideen leaders have also