broad-based government in Afghanistan.
The Mujahideen , April jMay,1990
Besides the loyalist tanks fighting for the control of the Defence Ministry, Najib was supported by a Russian SCUD station in Termez and Russian bomber planes. SCUD missiles fired on Kabul and Bagram could not have originated from the Kabul station because the range was too short while the Mazar station computer facilities had been put out of order by Tanai’s sympathizers. Similarly, the command center at the airforce base at Bagram knew where every plane and pilot of the Afghan Airforce was flying, bombing, or landing. When Bagram base was aerial bombed, Tanai’s forces knew that only the Russian planes and pilots could be responsible. Further evidence was provided by the bomb craters themselves which were made by “cross bombs”, a type of weapon which the Russians had never provided to the Afghan Airforce.
By 5 a.m. on March 7, the entire Defence Ministry building was destroyed and the three leading officers of Tanai’s forces there were killed as well as many others while some were arrested or surrendered. Fighting was fierce in the city at Khair Khana Mayna and at Kabul Airport where the Tanai forces had taken control. Three SCUDs fell near Bagram Airbase but communication and control facilities were not destroyed until the Russian pilots bombed the airbase, damaging the runway, destroying about thirty planes, and most importantly, the weapons depot.
Without further capacity to attack the enemy or even defend themselves, and without communication with other stations to call for assistance, Tanai, many of his pilots, and other defecting officers fled the Bagram airbase. They had been so sure of victory that most of them had no escape plan. Two planes and a helicopter arrived in Pakistan after flying across Afghanistan, sometimes flying high to avoid Mujahideen anti-aircraft weapons and sometimes low to avoid Kabul-Russian radardetection. Gen. Tanai found refuge with the Hezb-i-Islami forces and shifted operation to a Mujahideen command
center near Kabul. The fate of other pilots and officers of the military uprising is notknown. Perhaps they were trapped by attack on the airbase before they could make a decision to escape and surrendered or were arrested or killed.
Gen. Najib continued his poisonous propaganda over the radio, with the advice of the Russians, capitalizing on three devious deceptions: first, that his appointment of Aslam Watanjar a prominent Khalqi proved that he still enjoyed support of both factions of the PDPA; second, that Gen. Tanai’s association with the Mujahideen proved him to be a traitorous opportunist seeking power, and third, that Gen. Tanai had deserted his supporting forces by seeking safety in Pakistan.
With his communication systems destroyed at both Darul Aman and Bagram, Gen. Tanai was stymied in his attempts to counter the propaganda andcommunicate with the forces in other cities. His short messages transmitted through the media of Iran and Pakistan, however, assured his supporters that he was working with the Mujahideen to overthrow the ruthless Najib regime, to achieve an end to the decade-long fighting, and to restore self-determination to the Afghan nation.
From March 7 up until the present. Mujahideen intensified their activities and have captured post after post in areas around Jalalabad, Ghazni, Khost, Qunduz, Qandahar, Shindand and Herat.
Page 7