________
choose whether to continue happily or leave rejoicing, and likewise refused to send in tanks and artillery in defending “friendly” but unpopular dictators the world over. The re-unification of former West and East Germany was politically speaking to his credit for ever accepting to allow the merger, withdraw his forces, and promise not to interfere in other countries, internal problems. Finally, he was the first Soviet leader to publicly criticize Russian policy in Afghanistan by terming the Red Army involvement in Hindukush a bleeding wound.
These above cited achievements without doubt shook the very foundation on which post Second World War strategic studies and international diplomacy were built. The so-called cold-war syndrome has gone at least for now, and oppressive ideological enclaves have but for a few disappeared. The iron-curtain was broken and the steel-wall gave way to a free-world.
What then has turned these apparently brilliant collection of personal intiatives into a disturbing array of global afflictions? To answer this pathetic question, distinctions must be drawn between good intentions and viable conceptions as well as between quick and short turn-overs and delayed and permanent accomplishments. What could be counted as Gorbechev’s achievements were immediate results of his apparently good intentions, which only few could disprove. His failures and liabilities lay eternally in fanatically leading the whole world to a situation that might eventually become the greatest socio-political catastrophe in the history of mankind.
In any revolution, you don’t dismandc except when you havea standby alternative, and it is a crime in itself to destroy a system, even if oppressive, except when you are confident that you have the faith, men, programme, understanding and unbreakable will to build another in its stead. Gorbechev unfortunately had neither the people, nor the brain. He wavered in
The Mujahideen, September, 1991
determination as much as he knew not his own destination. As for his belief in Communism or new Marxism as he loved to call it; he was an apostate, since his conviction was zero. And for the newly embraced religion of Western style-democracy, freedom and so-called fundamental human rights, he could well be described as a pretender and traitor.
His leadership was clouded with recklessness, tactlessness and sheer imbecility least expected of a man of his standing. What he should have put in mind was the adage that charity begins at home and therefore needed not to
have disturbed world geo-political stability without first having total control of events in the Soviet Union. Similarly, his international programmes should have been executed in a form that would not threaten world peace. This he could do by maintaing the East-West power balance. But his inability to successfully steer his own ship out of strong waters has destroyed all logical bases for a progressive international co-existence and shattered old hopes for a world free of oppression.
One such example of his short sightedness or obvious betrayal was the unilateral dissolution of the Warsaw Pact as a lever to NATO, removing thereby the only available practical and effective check on Capitalist absolutism on the
Page 42
globe. The positions of Moscow on Afghanistan and UNO were two other examples of Gorbechev’s contribution to world instability.
For convenience, we shall review first open Communist crimes in protecting the puppet regime in Kabul during the tenure of Mikhail. People did take him serious the day he announced his country’s preparedness to withdraw from Afghanistan. Butas events unfolded themselves, it became clear that Soviet policy on this country would only change in shape and colour, not in content and goals. It was eventually known that
perestroika and glasnost were for Eastern Europe and not for subjugated Muslim republics.
The first suspicion as to Moscow’s real intention was created by the way and manner the Geneva Accord was formalized. Mikhail Gorbechev entered into negotiations with America, Marxist regime in Kabul and Pakistan on Afghanistan, without the participation of the armed resistance movement which represented more than 95% of the population. This was of course not of omission but a deliberate attempt at frustrating any total military victory of the Muslim revolutionaries.
A case like the above mentioned one presented a real picture