Khalqis.
The announcement of a so-called attempted coup was broadcast both from Kabul and the Soviet Union on. different radio stations and the Farchamites, particularly, the ambassadors were accused of being CIA agents. Senior Parchamites, including Sultan Ali Kishtmand, General Mohammed Rafi and General Abdul Qadir, were imprisoned.
The Russians wanted the antigovernment Mujahideen to be wiped out even if meant that they had to invade Afghanistan.
. They persuaded their comrades to- use any tactics they could, including torture. The Russians besides using the Khalqis as mob forces were worried that close relations between the Khalqis might end in disobedience.
When the Russians found that the Khalqis had failed to shake off the Mujahideen, they remained in a quandary and launched a plot to divide the Khalq faction into two groups for the following purpose:
(a)	Once the Russians had removed one group then they
. could blame them for crimes.
(b)	They would make the remaining Khalqis to merge with the Parchamis.
The Khalq party was divided into the groups of Taraki and Amin. The Russians in a very knavish way promoted the hatred within the party, which was once describing itself as united.
At the beginning of 1979, according to Amin's close associates, the Russian ambassador, Puz-anov allusively told Amin that Taraki had been accusing him of being a CIA agent. Amin. asked Puzanov, how he could prove that he was not.' Puzanov then talked about the dangerousness of American ambassador, Adolph Dubs, and suggested a way of getting rid of the American am
bassador.
In the second week of February 1979, a group of four commandos wearing traffic uniforms provided by Mohammad Naim Khaliqi Dost, nephew of Amin and Director General of Kabul Traffic, kidnapped Mr Dubs near the American Cultural Center while he was on his*way to the Embassy. The ambassador was taken to Kabul Hotel on the south side of the presidential palace. Dubs was neither arrested nor killed by any anti-government groups, as was widely believed at the time.
According to an eyewitness, Akbar Jan Tani, nephew of Amin's Minister of Interior, Faqir. Mohammad Faqir, who lived in the hotel, about three days before the incident the hotel was reserved by a group of Russian visitors. Akbfcr Jan disclosed that when Dubs was brought in he was guided by the Russians to the second floor and thoroughly interrogated nearly up to noon.
Akbar Jan recalled that during Dubs interrogation four political prisoners were brought from the Pul-i-Charkhi Jail and were shot by the police in the hotel while at the same time the Russians kflled Adolph Dubs. However the Kabul Government claimed the four prisoners were kidnappers who were killed by the police.
In kidnapping Dubs the Russians had three motives: first, it would keep the Khalqis away from the Western countries; secondly the Russians were afraid of Dubs's presence in Kabul because he was a leading Soviet specialist; thirdly Taraki was convinced by the Russians that Amin was intentionally trying to disgrace his government in the eyes of the world.
In Sept. 1979 when Taraki went to Havana, the Russian advisors to the Kabul government initiated a plan to get rid of Amin before Taraki returned home. Taraki was
still in Havana when Amin back in Kabul neutralized the possibility of all sort of action against himself Taraki even remained for one day in the Soviet Union at the request of Moscow, thinking that his followers, with the help of Russian advisors, would put Amin out of the way.
On Friday, 16 September 1979 the. Russian ambassador. Puzanov, with General Garilov, Soviet advisor of the Afghan ground forces General G. Pavlavskiy and Colonel Arif Shatyanov Soviet Advisor of the Afghan. Airforces were sitting with Taraki in the Presidential palace, where Taraki's men were taking action against Amin. Amin knew about the plot in- advance because one of his men, Sayed Qeoud Taroon had infiltrated the to Taraki. During the shooting Sayed Daoud Taroon and Amin's bodyguard were killed and Mohammad Qasim Waziri, another of Amin s bodyguards, was seriously wounded.
Amin, taking his wounded guard on his shoulder, escaped with the help of his driver, Mohammad Shahrif, and reached the Defence Ministry, located east of the presidential palace.
•Taraki's Moscow-approved coup backfired and Amin telephoned Taraki and asked him to surrender. Taraki was arrested and Puzanov was expelled from Afghanistan within a week. On 4 October Taraki was killed by one of Amin's men, Captain Rozi Khan. Kabul and Moscow both announced that Taraki died because of illness.
The Russian's assured Amin of ’ political financial and military support but in less than a month the Russians found out that Amin too was unable to crush the Mujahideen.
In the last weak of October another plot was hatched against Amin by the Russians and at the same time they informed him that Taraki's supporters were trying to
10
The Mujahideen Monthly