the Communists are printing extra currency to bribe their supporters, thus creating even more inflationary pressure. Officially, late in December, an economic crackdown was announced in Kabul to stem imports and encourage exports.
Education
Kabul University has less than 4000 students and the curriculum is in disarray. Either the books are the same as used 10 years ago or they are imported, from the Soviet Union, causing abrupt changes in the teaching theory.
Sixty professors fled this year, and those remaining are under extreme pressure to promote only the students of the Communist party, instead of qualifying all students on the basis of examinations. Seventy per cent of the students are women because the men have been recruited or fled.
One refugee from Kabul claims that in the elementary schools students who finish grade eight are requested by the government to teach classes from first grade up to fourth grade. It is also alleged that dancing and Communist ideology are taught at a very young age and in preference to other subjects. For this reason and due to sporadic bombardments of the streets and schools, many parents keep their children at home.
Health care
Infant mortality rate has not improved with the Communist regime, and the incidence of malaria has increased. The October UNICEF survey concluded that 40% of children examined in Kabul suffered from "mild to moderate" malnutrition. The only medicine available in the pharmacies is made in the Soviet Union or Eastern bloc countries, and the doctors have not been trained in the proper use of these drugs.
Recent refugee arrivals have mourned the poor state of the hospitals which lack medicine and supplies. One nurse from a children’s hospital in Kabul explained that there were no medicines, no syringes, no nasogastric tubes, and not even emergency supplies. This nurse related the following sorrowful tale.
"One night a man brought his sick son to the hospital. The father
looked very tired because he had come all the way from Paghman. Although the boy was desperately ill and required an intravenous line and medication immediately, we had no supplies in the hospital, and the doctor was forced to write a prescription and give it to the father to take to the bazaar. The father was gone for hours and, because of the seriousness of the boy's illness, we borrowed the most necessary supplies with some difficulty from another patient. We began to wonder what kind of a man he was to desert his desperately sick son in this way.
"When morning came an old
man entered the hospital to find the boy. Instead of bringing medicine for the boy, he began to remove his precious, life-saving intravenous line. We immediately inquired on what authority he was acting. The old man replied that as a poor uncle of the boy he was unable to leave the boy in the hospital. When the boy's father had gone to the drug store, a soldier had shot him and killed him because he was q Muslim. Now there was no one to take care of his wife and this sick son."
Escape
To go to Pakistan now takes at least 20 days due to fighting on all the major highways. There is oftetf little food and poor shelter along the way. Still many flee.
Safety
Police raids of suspected supporters of the Mujahideen arp regular. The prisons are still full of innocent people who are physically and mentally tortured to obtain "confessions" and deprived of trial.
children, mother: young and old
daily flee Afghanistan
for refugee Camps in
Pakistan.
22
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990