the use of anti-personnel mines and booby traps was now part of a strategy clearly aimed at the civilian population of villages where a large military operation was under way.
He described the use of antipersonnel mines, particularly the booby-trapped toys as "horrible." He said many witnesses testified that been very seriously wounded, having their hands or feet blown off, either by handling booby-trapped toys that they had picked up along the roadway, or by stepping on them.
He said that the toys were usually dropped by helicopter in resistance zones and comprised various types including those resembling pens, harmonicas, radios, matchboxes and little bombs shaped like a bird. The later type consisted of two wings, one flexible and the other rigid in the shape and colours of a bird. The bomb exploded when the flexible wing was touched, he said.
MASSACRES:
As examples of mass killings Dr Ermacora cited two separate massacres of civilians, both in March 1985.
He said in the first which occurred in the Qarghai district of Laghman province from II to 18 March approximately 1000 civilians	were	killed	by	army
units assigned	to	carry	out
reprisals	against	12	villages. In
the course of these operations livestock was decimated, houses plundered and set on fire and women	raped,	some	of	them
then being summarily executed. Several children locked in a house were burned to death.
Witnesses told the Special Rapporteur the massacre took place in the villages of Qarghai, Mindrawer, Kats Dehmezang, Haider Khan, Charbagh and Chardehi.
In the second massacre, in late March, betwe.en 700 and 1200 civilians were killed in a large-scale operation which lasted for several days in the Khanabad district of Kunduz province. The villages most affected were Bagh, Amir, Gur Tepeh and Qarai Qasabchar. According to one eye-witness the governor of the province decided to flee after the massacre.
The Special Rapporteur said in his report that the massacre was the most murderous incident since the war began but was only one in a series which according to certain estimates had claimed the lives of about 500,000 Afghans since 1979 most of them civilians.
One of the aspects of the war that most concerned Dr Ermacora was the growing use of highly destructive weapons, particularly in bombardments. He said witnesses old him that during the last three years the bombarments had constituted a deliberate policy designed to drive out the population out in remove months the situation had work ends
The Special rapporteur noted that new elements in the bombardments included the use of FROG 7 surface to surface missiles which wreaked destruction on a larger scale than in the past.
Witnesses from Urozgan province, in the centre of the country, also said that the systematic bombardment of villages was relatively recent phenomenon, as compared with what has happened in other province.
In addition, several witnesses mentioned what they described as highly powerful explosive devices that caused considerable destruction and which they referred to as "nopalm” (as dis. nguished from napalm). -
Dr Ermacora interviewed a num-bef of patients severely wounded as a result of these explosives; the wounds were said to be the
effect of certain chemical substances.
According to statistics quoted by him 32,755 civilians were reported to have been killed duiing the first nine months of 1985,1834 houses destroyed, 74 villages wiped out and more than 3000 animals killed.
The statistics were compiled by the Bibliotheca Afghanica Foundation based in Liestal, Switzerland from about 80 different sources covering the entire spectrum of opinion on Afghanistan.
The Special Rapporteur's attention was also drawn to thedestruc tion of irrigation systems in provi nces as a result of aerial bombard ments which were so heavy that repairs were impossible. In several regions agriculture had been completely obliterated.
As a result there was a risk of famine spreading and cases of malnutrition, especially among children continued to be reported.
According to recent information reaching Dr Ermacora the situation in August- and September was particulary alarming because of intense fighting in Pakita province. About 30 wounded as a day were reported to be arriving at the ICRC hospital in Peshawar.
In this hospital, which was a normal capacity of 100 beds and in emergencies can. theoretically be expanded to accommodate 150/ there were 140 casualties on 15 August, and 230 wounded from 2—7 September.
As the number of wounded was rising steadily, ICRC decided to set up an emergency unit on a scale unequalled since the unit on the Khmer-Thailand border was set up in 1975. In *addition a complete field hospital, with 300 beds end surgical teams consisting of Finns, Swedes, Norwegians, New Zealanders and Danes, was established early in September not far from the ICRC hospital.
Commenting on medical racm-
The Mujahideen Monthly
17