Hekmatyar talks to Soviet Journalist
The Amir of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbadin Hekmatyar, told a Soviet journalist that Mujahideen after the establishment of their government in Afghanistan will demand war reparations from the Soviet Union.
Hekmatyar said that he would not demand punishment for the Soviet army officers for being involved in crimes during thdr stay in Afghanistan. However, he added that the Soviet people themselves were demanding the trial of such army officers. The Soviet journalist asked Hekmatyar if he would give the names of such officers of the Red Army, the Afghan leader advised the Soviet Union to obtain the list from its KGB.
The interview recently took place at the stronghold of Hekmatyar in Paktia (Afghanistan). The Soviet journalist identified himself as the correspondent of the Young Pravda.
The ‘journalist’, accompanied by another Soviet national, was taken to Afghanistan. The Hizb sources believe that the interviewer was sent to Hekmatyar, in the garb of a journalist.
Moscow must look after its own collapsing house. It should be least interested in our problems. I don’t know why the diversity of parties is considered to be a sign of democracy and political polarization elsewhere but in case of Afghanistan they express misgivings and look at it as a sign of hostility.
If Afghans could liberate their country from the superpower, they will be able to put their house in order very easily. The problem in our country is not diversity but interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan mostly by Moscow and Washington.
Is it true that you do not exchange the POWs because you want to extort political concessions from Moscow?
No, absolutely not We are for total exchange in the context of the package of settlement:
Do you pelieve that Afghanistan will be a friendly country 7n future?
Why not, provided the USSR stops interference in our affairs. It must respect our territorial integrity and national sovereignty.
Will you demand war reparations from the Soviet Union?
Following are the questions and
answers of the interview; '
/	.■	j
Moscow is afraid that the Afghan Mujahideen will start fighting one another as soonns they enter Kabul.
k
b	yes,ofcourse,thatisourright
But will it be possible to demand war reparations amtalso see the prospect of friendship in future?
t
I don’t think that these are interlinked. You just visit Afghanistan yourself and see the extent of devastation of today alone by the weapons sent by your government to Afghanistan. When you see the extent of damages, you will agree with our demand for war reparations. I must tell you that this is the right of the Afghan people.
How much reparations will you demand?
It will be possible to determine this only after a complete survey.
I am really pleased that you receive me inside Afghanistan and am gratefulfor giving me your precious time as I understand that you are a busy man.
You are most welcome. You are no longer in an occupied and subjugated Afghanistan. You and I now breath in a free Afghanistan where you might be hearing the boom and roar of planes and artillery but you will not see any sign of foreign control or influence.
May I know where exactly this particular area is located in Afghanistan?
This is Paktia province. It used to be a such green province* and a beautiful summer resort. The tall mountains used to be covered with dense pine and oak tree plantation which have been turned into ashes during the decade-long war imposed by the USSR on our brave and peaceful nation.