The Mujahideen , April/May, 1990

By the RACA subcommittee on cultural affair*	Will the Afghans disarm for peace*.	i
		
T he recent Russianten-point plan to solve the Afghan problem, unfortunately falls apart with its very first point It is unfortunate, because we would all like to see peace restored, but it is not uncharacteristic of theRussian approach to Afghanistan to totally misunderstand the Afghan people, their culture, and their religion.
The first point of the Russian plan is “demilitarization” of Afghanistan. For anyone who knows the Afghans, the idea is laughable. Afghans,
be they Pathans, Uzbeks, Tajiks, or of
any other tribe, love their guns. From about the age of 12, they learn to carry, clean,andshootarealgun. Thechildren never play at war, no games of “cops and robbers” for them; they learn to respect the real thing, feuds and battles are part of their family history and often part of their life. Every Afghan over the age of 12 uses a gun. The Afghans had the advantage of "mass preparedness” when the Russians invaded, a fact which the Russians either missed entirely or
thought they could overcome with modem weapons.
To the Afghans, the Russian invasion was just history repeating itself. The blistering invasion of Genghis Khan in 1220 A.D. is fresh in the mind of every Afghan. As the late Dr. Louis Dupree wrote,” Genghis Khan made history by destroying the finest civilizations of the thirteenth century. He was the atom bomb of his day. “ The mosques and libraries he burned, the cities and canals mined, and the people slaughtered will never be forgotten in the history passed down among the Afghans.
For this reason their sons are always taught to point a gun towards the north when test firing. The Russians may have always longed for a warm port to the south, but what they should have known before, and what they still seem to bang their heads against, is that Afghanistan is not a door to be opened by force.
The Russian invasion of Afghanistan was not only reminiscent of
Genghis Khan because they came from the north, but because of their brutal and ugly attempt to destroy the culture and religion of the people as well as their homes, fields, and families. AsDr.G.H. Kushan, former Chief of the Afghan Public Libraries, Chief and founding member of the National Archives, and former officer in the Ministry of Information and Culture, describes theRussians destroyed or removed the treasures of the Afghan cultural and historical heritage. They ruined historical sites and monuments in Balkh, Herat, Qandahar, Ghazni, Kabul, Kapisa, Badakh-shan, and Nangarhar with aerial bombardment and artillery fire. Just a few examples include the bombardment of the Arch of Triumph in Paghman, the heavy damage of the minaret and ruins of the tomb of Gauharshad, desecration of the graves of scholars and learned people of Herat, damages to the mosque ofKhirqah Sharif in Qandahar, the Holy Hair of the prophet in Ghazni, the tombs of Sultan Mahmud the Great and Hakim Sanaii - the list goes on and on.
Parallel to the destruction of these religious and historically important sites, the Red Army has removed the treasures of the Afghan museums. The Kabul Museum which was in fact the national museum, of Afghanistan, was taken over by a special commando unit of the Red Army, transferred to Kabul along with the rest of the so-called “limited contingent” which carried out the coup and assassinated Hafizullah Amin. The same group along with other Russian advisors collected the treasures of the Kabul Museum including objects of ivory and gold, fine jewelry, antique china and fine glassware and packed it into large wooden cases which had been prepared for the purpose. During the night most of the cases were taken to the airport and flown away.
Other museums raided include Haddah, Ikhtiaruddin Castle and museums in the Central Post Office, the
Page 18