THE SOVIET STYLE OF GOOD NEIGHBOURLINESS
By Ghous Amer (Member of Afghan News Agency)
The Russian inroad into the poor, defenceless and landlocked Afghanistan in December 1979 came as a Hide shock to the world nations. They had never thought of this brutal onrush of the Soviets to ever take place against a friendly, tiny Muslim country. But unfortunately this happned and Afghanistan came under the Communist sway.
In fact, the Soviet military might warned the West interfering in the affairs of the countries situated close to the Russian border. The Kremlin bosses startd issuing orders while the hirelings of the Kabul regime were bound to obey them. The Russians tried to dupe the free world by speaking highly of the welfare and prosperity of the Afghan Nation as well as about the overall socio-economic development
Instead the Soviets turned Afghanistan into one of the most poverty-sticken and bullet-riddled countries of the world, dislodged millions of its people and crippled the entire state apparatus. There were unprecedented	human
sufferings in the recent history -over one million deaths occurred and countless became disabled. The protracted wanton bombardment deep isnide Afghanistan has woughty havoc to agricultural field, schools, health centres and roads. The
The Mujahideen Monthly
countryside is littered with mines, bombs, hand grenades and other lethal devices that pose a major threat to life for an indefinite period.
Villages were ruined and the centuries-old traditional life of the peace-loving people was completely	disrupted.	Those
who dared to put up a resistance were jailed in the dark dungeons. The advdent of Russian troops in Kabul, however, was a good omen for the pro-Moscow quislings who were out to chant the slogans of '• a so-called earthly paradise.
The	atrocities	and
persecution	of the Russians in
collusion with the surrogate clique in Kabul led to the national	uprising	and
strengthening of Jehad which luckly culminated in bringing the infidel invaders to their knees. It still continues and will perpetuate till the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. The holy war
(Jihad) caused tension and chaos within the ranks of the communist party and their KGB masters.
The Afghan Jihad quardually gained momentum and, as more and more patriotic Muslims rallied round it. the process and stance of the holy war was expeditiossly intensified and became universal. In spite of ruthless repression by the Russians, mainly through air and ground strikes on the Afghan Mujahideen’s concentrations and the villages which somewhat provided protection to them, the Afghan Mujahideen have pinned down the Russian aggrossors.
Najib was installed by the Russians to fulfil what Karmal failed to chieve who is still serving his KGB superiors and fight against his nation But th^ general situation cropping up around Najib and his followers is indicative of his imminent downfall.