has been well served by them. During the days of King Aman-ullah and King Nadir Shah the Russians were able to persuade both kings not to help the Muslim leaders of Central Asia who were fighting for their independence against the Russians.
The old friendship between the Kremlin and Kabul's rulers has i educed the Afghan nation to poverty, step by step, until it now faces destruction, the loss of its independence, and even genocide.
King Zahir Shah- served the Russians for 40 years and provided them with the best opportunity to communize the Afghan nation through so-called educational programs, and military, development and trade treaties.
Big brother's aid was not given unconditionally, but instead the Kremlin expected King Zahir Shah to let it propagate Communism.
By 1965 the Russians had succeeded in persuading the then prime minister, Mohammad Daoud, to accept changes in Zahir Shah's National Constitution and promised him that one day they would make him the ruler of Afghanistan. Some of the changes in the*National Constitution were that the prime minister should not be from the royal family and that political parties had to be permitted
Under Moscow's plan Mohammed Daoud was given the task of communizing Afghanistan by his Russian puppeteers.-A week after Daoud's removal as prime minister, one of the graduates of the Faculty of Politics at Kabul University, whom I cannot name for security reasons, visited him at his summer house near Paghman valley. The young politician quoted Daoud as saying: ''Now it is time to work for Socialism, we have formed a political party and soon many intellectuals will join us.”
In 1965 the first Communist
paper, Khalq, was published with the permission of Zahir Shah's government. The paper was launched to advertise the official announcement of the formation of the Communist party, Hezb-i-Demociatic Khalq Afghanistan (Peoples DemOciatic Patty of Afghanistan). Apparently Noor Mohammed Tarak' was appointed leadet tor political reasons but in reality Mohammed Daoud held the reins of power and c&ntrol
of the PDPA.
After a short time the Kremlin realised that it would help its plans to Communize Afghanistan by playing off various groups within the Afghan marxists against one another. It divided the PDPA into two groups:
(a)	The Khalq faction — >uial dwellers, landlords, tribal leaders, and the majority of Pushtoo speakers.
(b)	The Parcham faction — urbanites,' aristrocrats, landlords, tribal leaders, and the majority of Persian speakers.
The Russians, in making the move, skilfully created schisms and hatred among thier Afghan comrades. The Kremlin also masterfully played upon the conflicts between the rich and the poor and linguistic prejudice. This ended in the creation 6f two other nationalist parties, Situm Milli (Persian speakers) and Afghan Millat (Pushtoo speakers).
The Kremlin manipulated the two parties to fan the flames of difference already existing between Pushtoo and Persian speakers.
More importantly, the move also helped the Kremlin to advance the so-called Pushtunistan issue — the creation of an independent state for people speaking Pushtoo.
Pushtunistan was promoted not just by Moscow but also by King Zahir Shah, Khalq, Parcham, and Afghan Millat. It was the only issue in which Moscow was successful in
uniting all the parties.
In July 1973, in keeping with the Krelmin's policy of taking steps after 10 years and its pro mise to Mohammad Daoud, Mos cow asked Zahir Shah to leave Afghanistan on the pretext of seeking medical treatment overseas. Three days later, on a quiet and sunny morning, Kabul Radio announced that Mohammad Daoud was the president of Afghanistan. In Daoud's bloodless coup, well engineered by Moscow, more than five serving army officers from the Khalq faction and at least 14 officers from the Parcham faction played leading roles.
Moscow, the.Khalq and Parcham factions of PDPA, Afghan • Millat and other small secular parties praised Mohammad Daoud as a hero and great leader. Both the Khalq and Parcham factions bowed down to him but old hatreds and differences between them eventually led Daoud to squeeze the Khalqis out of the government.
At Moscow's request Mohammed Daoud planned to have a two party government, with the Parcham Party, headed by himself, in government, and the Khalq Party, headed by Noor Mohammed
Taraki, in opposition.
Moscow's scheme to establish such a government was set aside when in 1975 Daoud's special envoy attended an Islamic conference in Lahore and later himself visited the Gulf states. However, when he visited Raza Shah of Iran the Kremlin scotched the plan completely. Some people believe that Raza Shah was comissioned by the CIA to convince Mohammed Daoud to keep away from the Russians but this is doubtful because if the CIA had briefed Raza Shah why did it not help Daoud when the Russians initiated the April coup of 1978.
When Daoud founded his own pa/ty, Mill-i Ghourzang (National Uprising), the Russians maintained
8
The Mujahideen Monthly