to their country and replaced them by doubling MRB/R, AHR, AAB/ R, and THR units and also Air-borne/Airmobile Brigades (A/AB), Multiple Rocket Launcher Regiments (MRLR). The number of the Russian forces went up to 130,000. They changed their tactics by shelling and bombing the Mujahideen positions from long distance to avoid their casualties.
In 1982 the most effective gun-ship helicopters were MI-24-D and MI-24-E, because the rumour was floated in the country that none could shot them down. This did have impact on the Mujahideen's morale. The Mujahideen avoided those Russian convoys which were moving under protection of these helicopters. That is why the Russian casualties came down to 9,000 men in 1982.
BRUTAL OPERATIONS
In 1983 the Russians launched heavy offensives, employing three
or four divisions at a time. Besides raiding the Mujahideen's strongholds they also increased their attacks on villages and towns burning farms and crops to deprive the Mujahideen of people s I material support as well as food supply. Those brutal operations forced thousands of people to take refuge in the neighbouring countries. The same year 40,000 additional Soviet flowed into Afghanistan, making a total of 150,000 men By the end of 1983 the Russian casualties shot up to 10,000 men.
INTELLIGENCE NETWORK
The next year about 30,000 fresh troops joined the Russian-Afghan army in the Spring offensives against the Mujahideen throughout Parwan including the Panjshir valley. Besides, a network of KGB and Khidmat-i-Aminiat Daulati (KHAD) - Government Security Service — was given shape to prop up the army intelligence.
This made the offensives a partial success. Moreover the Panjshir people were freed to visit Kabul for a few days, and this made way for government to collect military information about the Mujahideen. This tactic made it easy for the Russian to bomb the ammunition depots and important strategic peaks not only in the Panjshir valley, but in many parts of Afghanistan.
The same year the Mujahideen were encouraged by reports from different fronts, where rocket-propelled grenade IRPG-7) could be used against the gunship helicopters. This boosted the Mujahideen's morale and they put up a tough resistance to the Red troops. By the end of 1984 the Russian casualties jumped to 11,000, whereas their troops were around 180,000.
TRADITIONAL CLOTHES FOR R USJ51 Aty-AFGHAN TROOPS:
The aim of this tactic in 1985
The wreckage of Russian tank.
The Mujahideen Monthly
14
Jan - Feb 1987