time of the initiation of the Geneva talks on Afghanistan, the Mujahideen leaders had expressed the same position.
The Hizb-i-lslami leader stated that the best form of dialogue on Afghanistan would be that of one between the Afghan Mujahideen and the Soviets. "We have made it clear time and again that Pakistan should not participate in such a dialogue (which includes the Kabul regime), particularly when it acts as a principal party to such talks," he said.
Mr Hikmatyar said that any negotiations which did not include the Mujahideen as a direct and principal party, would fail. "We have been tipped that even the Soviets are prepared for a dialogue which would exclude the Kabul regime and include th Mujahideen. In this regard we have received a proposal which we have discussed in the Supreme Council of the IUAM, but have not made a decision (on it) yet," he revealed.
He added "My understanding is that the Soviets will ultimately councede this fact and will ultimately concede this fact and will ultimately get ready for such a dialogue with the Mujahideen. In case they really want a solution, they will have no choice but to talk with the Mujahideen."
The Mujahideen leader said that the late President Zia-ul-Haq truly represented the wishes of Pakistanis with regard to Afghanistan. President Zia-ul-Haq, he said, had adopted his Afghan policy on the basis of these popular aspirations of Pakistanis.
Clarifying a statement of his
as reported in an Islamabad daily on Sunday, Mr Hikmatyar said that he had stated that "whosoever wins the (forthcoming) elections in Pakistan would pursue this popular policy". Any patriotic leader, he said, would pursue such a policy, “which I see very much in the national interest of Pakistan. He added that he, therefore, had no worries about the policy of such patriotic persons.
Mr. Hikmatyar said he did not believe that "the Muslim nation of Pakistan” would vote those "who oppose the Jihad in Afghanistan or intend to alter the present policy".
While discussing reports of current Soviet efforts to put together a ruling coalition under former King Zahir Shah so as to include representatives of the Peoples Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA), leaders of the Mujahideen factions other than the fundamentalist' groups, and some of the local field commanders inside Afghanistan,
Mr Hikmatyar maintained that the Soviets had no choice but to concede the realities in reaching an understanding with "the major political forces"
If the Soviets, he said, could have put up with Zahir Shah in the first place, they would not have removed him. "Even if they could tolerate people like Daud, they would not have toppled him like that" he said
Mr. Hikmatyar said that the Soviets were doing their best to create discord and rift between "our nation". He added that if the Soviets could solve the Afghan problem through reaching an undestanding with some of the selective Afghan Mujahideen parties or with some of the commanders, they would have done so much earlier.
He said that if one looked at the change of Soviet policy on Afghanistan from the time of Daud to that of Taraki and till Najib's time, together with their efforts at changing the present structure, it all showed that the Soviet priorities had changed

District headquarters of Arghandab.
The Mujahideen Monthly
12
November 1988