the Mujahideed on Salang highway in Parwan province. During the clash a Mujahid Fazal Ahad was martyred while the Kabul troops fled away carrying several dead bodies and the injured. In the course of another operation in Qila Murad Beg area, a Mujahid lost his life and three others were injured.
SOVIET TROOPS VACATE PROVINCIAL HEADQUARTER ON SALANG HIGHWAY
The Mujahideen led by commander Engineering Tariq conducted attack in Robat area of Parwan province on October 20, as a result of which four Kabul administration troops were killed and a jeep was destroyed, while the Mujahideen captured a truck.
In the same province, an Afghan militia commander Faiz Mohammad Khan joined the Mujahideen with his 25 soldiers and arms and ammunition, the same day, as a result of the shelling conducted by the Kabul administration forces in Said Khel area a Mujahid and two innocent children were killed.
According to another report received from Ustad Farid commander of Parwan province, the Soviet troops withdrew from Gulbahar. The re port further said that the Kabul administration officers and men were destroying their belongings In Gulbahar and the provincial headquarter of Charikar so that they could easily flee away towards Kabul. In the meanwhile, the Mujahideen seized an army truck on Mazar Sharif highway in Pul-e-Khumri in Baghlan province on October
18. . _____________*
QANDAHAR OPERATIONS The Mujahideen conducted
an operation in Qandahar wherein they killed and injured eleven troops while a tank and two army vehicles were destroyed.
According to the report the Mujahideen conducted an attack on the Kuchi army post close to the city, killing and injuring eleven troops. A tank and two army vehicles were destroyed during the attack. The Mujahideen captured a machine gun and other arms and moved back unhurt.
SOVIETS MEASURES TO PROTECT JALALABAD
After capturing Kunar and Kapisa provinces, the
Mujahideen are engaged . In mounting pressure on Jalalabad for the protection of which the Soviets have sent some troops.
According to the sources of the AAP 2,200 troops of the Seventh and Eighth Division In Qargha garrison of Kabul had been sent to Jalalabad. The
troops being sent to Jalabad had fled away to Samar Khel after occupation of Asadabad by the Mujahideen.
It is learnt that a Mujahideen group launched a rocket attack on a security post in the vicinity of Jalalabad on October 23, where a Kabul soldier was killed and three others were injured. The same day the Mujahideen hit Jalabad cantonment. However the losses taking place there could not be confirmed.
According to the details of the occupation of Mahmood Raqi, Kapisa's headquarter, 40 Kabul administration troops were killed or injured and three tanks and five vehicles were destroyed. Led by Hizb-e-lslami commander Ustad Farid in the attack to capture the provincial headquarter, the Mujahideen seized eight trucks, an armoured vehicle, three heavy machine guns and 160 kalashnikov rifles in addition to a sizeable quantity of arms and ammunition. The resistance sources said that the Mujahideen have become more
The Mujahideen Monthly
52
November 1988