advent of a world power and the exit of another global force does not represent any contradictions nor is it to be taken as a break in the cultural evolutionary process. In fact it is the most cogent evidence of a progressive continuation of the common human civilization.
Under these circumstances of intrinsic continuation, sporadic oscillations and unbroken chain of consistency, no nation could lead the
world except it utilizes those basic innate spiritual characteristics and possesses such socio-political understandings that make it an undisputed cultural-model for others to follow.
It is extremely difficult if not totally impossible to find a collection of local customs assuming the propensity of a global culture for a long time beside the fact that such traditions are the most logical as well as pragmatic in solving contemporary and unescapable sociopolitical and sprituo-economic crises. It would therefore be the first among apparently equal traditions but of course the most natural among others of its own kind in advancing the wheel of human intellectual and revolutionary developments.
As an illustration, we can cite the advent of the British in this part of the world and we mean the so-called Third World. The preponderance of Anglo-Saxon civilization today is no accident nor a resultant concomitant of
® The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991 I historical chance, if there is ever anything to be called as such. Before the rise of European powers and lately prior to American supremacy today, human developments were at the lowest possible velocity for the modem world. This was unfortunate in view of the unlimited but then unexplored and misused potentiality of the human race.
There was no doubt even in the minds of the most cynical critics that
those pre-Renasisance empires in Europe and tribal enclaves in Africa, Latin America and Asia, were a confluence of oppressive banality, ego-centricism, chaos, uncongenial superstitions and outright superfluous scholasticism.... Though there were some brilliant flashes of hope, sanity and progress here and there, but these were exceptions not the general rule. Their defeat therefore before an emblossoming and more scientific Anglo-Saxon understanding of life was too natural not to be expected, if one grasps how the most Gracious Creator deals with his slaves. But such dramatic rebellion against dogmatism by combined revolutionary forces of logic and pragmatism compelled human civilization to change its downward trend and to rise again in the eternal march towards perfection. The chain remains unbroken but the speed and direction have sincebecn altered.
. Today too, Western technological advancement though excellent in itself is loosing its old brilliant luster
of positive contribution to human civilization. European and American capitals are no more centers of freedom fighters or “libertarians” but have unfortunately been converted to notorious Zionist cells for economic colonialism, military imperialism and diplomatic terrorism. The West therefore has crossed the line of no-retums in its journey which has moral, spiritual, ecological and socio-political destructive backlash on human cultural advancement.
Sophisticated machinery though highly essential is not all that makes a better global comm uni ty. What exactly forms the core of global human development is the rule of sanity, justice and liberty, which the so-called modem democratic diplomacy of the West only pays a lip-service to. The doublestandards of our self-appointed champions of human rights are too numerous to count. This is why human progress would have to be reactivated. A new and redefined Islamic civilization should come to the rescue in view of the above stated observations.
The revived understanding of cosmic principles, manifesting themselves in already known and yet to be understood natural laws could be utilized in forwarding a real comprehensive and non-multiple standard of a socio-political and scientific culture. This is the only plausible alternative. The next line of progress must be a move towards absolute freedom, elimination of oppression and establishment as well as preservation of a productive global peace...
These are lofty goals, though still very far away, but are the basic motivating inertia behind socio-political revolutions that make the chain of human civilization unbroken as much as they perpetually drive its wheels in motion. It is the sole force that permanently dissolves the illusive and apparent contradiction between creation and revelation, exoteric ism and esotericism, as well as between physical nature and spiritual scripture. This is what we call a