that those who were forcibly recruited run away alongwith arms and ammunition and join the Mujahideen. Giving an estimate of his division, he pointed out that in a division there should be 12,000 men but at present in the 9th division the number was cut down to 834 only Similarly there should be
36 heavy guns and 35 tanks with a division but there were only 12 heavy guns and five tanks and there were 15 armoured vehicles.
The commander pointed out that the Afghan army was demoralised and had lost its aggressive capability and could not conduct any operation independently He said that the entire army wanted to flee away and defect but they had been kept in the encirclement of mined areas.
AFGHAN	COMMANDER
PREDICTS FALL OF NAJIB ADMINISTRATION
Incharge of Asmar Brigade. Major Abdul Ghafoor Chopan who defected to the Mujahideen and helped them to capture Asmar town, has said that the overwhelming majority of the urban areas controlled by the Kabul administration were with the Mujahideen, this was they were conducting successful operations within cities and towns
He told AAP In Peshawar that the Najib administration claim to construct a network of security fortresses around Kabul
to make unconqurreable but Afghan capital was being hit by havan (mortar) guns with a range of three kilometres. This was sufficient proof that the people in Kabul were providing help to the Mujahideen.
He asserted that the days of Najib administration were numbered and the Mujahideen would be able to liberate whole of Afghanistan He declared that it was his determination to fight against Soviet troops side by side with Mujahideen and would
drive them	out	of their
homeland		
Those	present	on the
occasion	were	Major
Mohammad	Jaffer	Mamoon.
Senior Captain Ali Ahmed Salarzai, Major Mohammad Ghani, Captain Ashiqullah and Captain Sher Azam They pointed out that it was being propagated that those who loined the Mujahideen were maltreated but they said that it was all false and concocted story. They conveyed a message through the press and media to those who wanted to defect that they must not be misled by any propaganda based falsehood and should join the Mujahideen without further wastage of time They should avail of the amensty announcement by the Mujahideen
OPERATIONS IN TAKHAR AND WARDAK
It was learnt that the series of Soviet bombing conducted to dislodge Mujahideen from Talqan provincial headquarter. Seven Mujahids and three civilians were martyred by the bombing on October 7, while 17 were injured
According to a report received from Wardak province, bombing was conducted in Qarya Aab and other rural areas in Shaneez Pass near Saidabad, where four persons were injured and many houses destroyed
GUERILLA OPERATIONS IN GHAZNI. HEART AND FARIAB PROVINCES
Kabul Radio confirmed reports of fighting in Badakhshan and Samangan provinces bordering the Soviet Union besides Ghazni, Herat and Fariab In the clash 48 people were killed and dozens of others were injured.
According to the Radio monitoring 25 people were killed in the clashes between the Kabul forces and the "armed opponents" near Herat city on October 17 while 18 persons were killed and over 100 sustained injuries in Fariab. Samangan and Badakhshan provinces
The Khad office in Ghazni was hit by the Mujahideen according to the Radio where five office bearers including two women were killed. The Radio did not mention the losses suffered by the Soviet-Kabul troops in the attacks.
SOVIET BOMBING IN QANDAHAR’S LIBERATED AREA
The Mujahideen foiled an attempt of the armoured units of the Kabul army in Takhta Pul. liberated area of Qandahar. The operation was aimed at recapturing the town.
According to the report the Kabul administration troops helped by the airforce advanced towards Takhta Pul town on October 18. However the Mujahideen encircled the troops. The Mujahideen forced to flee away the invading forces after a day long fighting They withdrew towards Qandahar after suffering
The Mujahideen Monthly
49
November 1988