The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991 wwmUMBmKftaffKmimUt$:Page 05
^MADRID^
A STORM IN A TEA CUP
(iBNABAYOMf )
“In the city of the blind” so goes the saying “one eyed is their king”. But today the blind seems again to be drunk and the self-made ruler is a proven cheat. No land is too sacred for him to defile, no honour too high for his men to soil and no trick is too difficult for his court to perform. The result is a new ruling order on the globe where diplomatic legitimacy must be given to every international exploitation and blanket approval to broad-day denial while generations; one after the other, are stripped of their identities, as much as land and honour in the evil dominion of oppression just to keep the banal ship of Zionism afloat.
Madrid remained till last week an entirely unknown and quiet city. Its inhabitants were not famous for ungodliness or profanity. But today its name has been tarnished by the unkind shoes that aligted on its lawns to discuss what history will definitely record as oneof the greatest political robbery of the century. It may sound funny, but still very true that the hands that raised Madrid to prominence today were the very ones that masterminded the notorious Desert-Storm campaign and partook happily in the merciless murdering of tens of thousand
Afghan students demonstrating in Peshawar to condemn the Middle East peace conference in Madrid
innocent children, women, and the aged just less than year ago in the same Middle East which the world is clamoring to settle.
What aconference! and what a cheat!! Today, men wearing their best suits and native outfits but harbouring in their inner selves the greatest animosity aganist justice, liberty and self-determination, are sitting before a psychologically be-witched audience numbering into scores of millions all around the globe to rewrite their names and those of their countries again in the memories of men after been repeatedly violated by unsurpassed despotism, and documented cases of atrocities.
Luckily we say, nature can not be cheated and not all men are dunces. There are still those who could see that the white gloves which the so-called peace-initiators are wearing bear multiple stains of blood and the symbolic doves of peace they set-free to fly grow red tails instead of white.
If Baathism has invaded Tehran, that was good, and Britain in falklands, China in Tibet, India in Kashmir or South Africa in any of the so-called front-line states are alright and fine. Here there shouldn’t be any Pandemonium. But a Persian Gulf threatened of its oil wells, or Islamic armed struggles in Afghanistan and Kashmir, or kids throwing pebbles in occupied lands of the Middle East or Palestinians on the street of Jerusalem demanding a return of their lands; is of course terrorism and anti-internationalism. It is must therefore be quenched.... Madrid therefore is serving not as a veil to cover, but as a show-case to expose the latent truths of life. Every body will see better than before that if he or she refuses to defend his natural honour the coming days might not be kind enough to protect him or his race from genocide. Revolutionary struggle is no more a theoretical possibility but a socio-political necessity in winning back liberty and freedom, to safeguard the rule of sanity and equity as well as guarantee a sojourn of peace and tranquility, on this earth before the hereafter.
One may start asking why is Washington now interested in » peace after disturbing the peaceful neighborhood of our planet for more than fifty years? Why has Spain become the meeting centre of the Jews and Christians after obliterating all traces of 800 years of Muslim rule on the same land? Why is Syria trying to project its image as the most radical champion of the Arab cause after the worst capitulation and willing co-operation in the Gulf Crisis? Why is Iran reviving its anti-Americanism after receiving repeated but sufficient bluff and snobbery from Washington?
Why...? and Why...?, it continues without an erid. The teenage who looked at himself as almighty in the isolated island of the fable Lilliputians was of course wrong. This isn’t Lillipqt any way, its the planet earth. Truth could be buried alive and its grave concreted with slab stones, but it will never die. Its seekers and lovers would one day locate its tomb, and Truth will once again rise up to pervade on earth. The Holy Qur’an says: Say the Truth has come and vanity has disappeared for certainly,falsehood is (meant) to vanish"
Banilsrail 17:81. ■