revived understanding of Islam as a way of life or more properly as a global civilization which does not necessarily mean a so-called conservative, dogmatic and traditional Muslim domination.
The revolutionary struggle for the establishment of the original Islam in its true manifestations is therefore not a question of choice but that of a must. Hence the only acceptable accomplishment cannot be anything less than a total and undisputable victory. This final realization, where and whenever, it occurs would never be a point of departure since human historical process will jealously retain its long and integrated line of socio-political, intellectual and military continuation of its evolutionary advancement. The question therefore would be the false impression of acute differences, constradictions and chances, which could be created here or there. But in the final analysis however, one finds that there is nothing as such since everything eventually falls into its deserving natural positions in the unbroken chain of human civilization.
The fall of feudalism, the rise of monarchy, the near total disappearance of the latter in face of aggressive constitutional republicanism and the likely evolution of ultra-national states from the debris of inefective or incompetent regional organizations such as WARSAW, OAU, EEC, ECOWAS, GCO, OIC, NATO e.t.c are some
The Mujahideen, July/ / August, 1991 i indications of this historical continuum.
To be realistic is to accept that going back on the abandoned norms and customs is not entirely impossible but only, extremely difficult via the same route. It is easier through a round-about return trip. The old oppressive shackles of political monopoly, social-manipulation and economic exploitation by a clique over the generality which brought the rise of modem nations and
the disintegration of ancient empires are still the same major revolutionary factors in understanding global instability today.
The same reasons were responsible for international ontcry against slavery, apartheid, fascism, Nazism and Communism. These various ideologies ran into trouble global wise, because they declared open battles against logic, freedom and other natural
Page 45 ■■■■■
dispositions in man. Their exit was therefore as natural as their advents. Unfortunately Western democracy too has been hijacked by capitalist monopolies and Zionist hawks. Though the former started well, but today, the old oppression that led to bloody revolutionary struggles in Europe and America has eaten deep into the edifice of our so-called modem civilization based in the West.
One may for ever be wondering why human historical development and the necessary progressive continuation of global civilization seem to be practically less expressive except through revolutionary struggles. Art, science, literature, technology, architecture, political theories, administrative systems, economic principles and of course military theses are nevertheless the chariot carriers of new ideological thoughts that come to replace old ones. No practicable doctrinal movement which is out in correcting existing anomalies in the society except it essentially manifests itself and hence assumes a position of superiority by living to expectation in all human endeavors, not just in tools and weaponry.
We must however, take cognizance of these major facts.
One: Various socio-political upheavals and religio-cultural changes in different places and generations would always combine to form an advanced version of