The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
Page 05
Policies of HIA
'I
Hekmatyar Takes Ulema Into Confidence
By Israrullah Khan
Ulema that Washington want to compensate Moscow for the concessions it allowed to US A in Africa and also for its support during
at length on Afghanistan issue and explained policies adopted by Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan in the best interests of Islam and
A big gathering of Afghan Ulema has endorsedpolicies of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan on Afghan issue and vowed to continue Jihad till the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
The Ulema who gathered at Jihad University in the afternoon of July 28 at Peshawar passed various resolutions, rejecting any kind of coalition with Najib or members ofhis communist party or the former Afghan monarchZahir Shah or his colleagues.
The Ulema also resolved to continue Jihad till establishment of anlslamic government in Afghanistan. They also pledged to resist any imposed solution of Afghan problem and pledged to hold up their arms till the removal of Najib regime.
The Ulema conference was arranged to get opinion of the Ulema on various policies adopted by the Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan in connection with the Afghan Jihad.
Amir of the Hezb-i-Islami Afghani-stan Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar who spoke on the occasion, dwelt
Afghan people.
Engineer Hekmatyar blamed Moscow and Washington for continued bloodshed in Afghanistan, adding, that both of the superpowers have joined hands against Islam and its true followers.
He blamed both Moscow and Washington for prolongation of war in order to establish a government of their own choice or otherwise turn Afghanistan into another
Lebanon. He, however, vowed to continue Jihad until the establishment of an Islamic government, reflecting aspirations of Afghan nation.
Gulf Crisis.
He said that if foreign interference is stopped in Afghanistan, war will come to an end and people of Afghanistan would he able to establish a government of their own choice.
Engineer Hekmatyar also paid rich tributes to the Afghan Ulema for their practical participation in Afghan Jihad and preparing the who nation for Jihad against communists.
Well aware of the importance of the Unity, Engineer Hekmatyar announced that his party is ready to accept any proposal for the unification of all Jihad organizations. He, howeversuggested the formation of a joint institution for launching unified attacks against enemy, if other majorpolitical points donot agree to form a grand unity of Mujahideen. He also suggested formation of a limited Shoora, comprising of heads of Mujahideen organizations only, for the supervision of such an institution.
Engineer Hekmatyar further said that such a joint military institution could be entrusted the task of holding election after removal of Najib regime within a stipulated period; so that an elected Shoora is formed and an Islamic government established in Afghanistan.
Rejecting Cuellar formula for solution of Afghan problem, he said Muj ahideen would never accept communists in their ranks. He said the formula seems to have been masterminded by such countries, having rested interests in Afghanistan.
The overwhelming support which Afghan Ulema extended to the policies adopted by Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan, have tremendously strengthenedhandsofits Amir Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar at such a critical juncture of Afghan nation, when enemies of Islam are leaving no stone unturned to block the formation of a true Islamic government in Afghanistan.
^The overwhelming support which Afghan Ulema ^ extended to the policies adopted by Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan, have tremendously strengthened hands of its Amir Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar at such a critical juncture of Afghan nation, when enemies of Islam are
yfa true Islamic government in Afghanistan. J
Engineer Hekmatyar reminded
V/'