mm	The	Mujahideen	,	AprillMay,	1990
Wheat empty silos, ammunition full arsenals
by Wahdat
Eom a geographical point of view Afghanistan is a mountainous country. Until the 70s, one of Afghanistan ’s major imports was wheat, even though almost all the people were involved in agriculture. In the early 1970s Afghanistan witnessed some increase in wheat production, but from 1978 on, this underdeveloped semi-agricultural and unindustrialized country has turned into a destroyed country. The production process has come to a dead halt. Due to the continuation of war, lack of production, issue of black currency, and increase of salaries of the officers and soldiers of the puppet regime’s army, inflation is at the highest peak in the country’s history. It may be possible that the volume of money will be equal to the volume of goods very soon.
As a direc t consequence of war nearly forty percent of agricultural lands and irrigation systems have been destroyed. Before the war 355,000 acres of agricultural lands were being irrigated by drains, springs and rivers, while about 12 thousand acres were being irrigated by waterwheel.A high percentage of farmers and land owners have been forced to leave the country or take shelter in the mountains. After the migration of more than five million and martyrdom of more than one million, there are about ten million living inside Afghanistan. Around two million people lost their houses and became refugees in the far areas inside Afghanistan, which has decreased the agricultural product to its lowest degree. The annual growth of wheat in Afghanistan is sufficient for only five million and the remaining five million are deprived of their life’s primary necessity, i.e. bread. Even though 500/000 tons of wheat is imported through different
routes, the price of wheat has increased seven times in villages (500 Afs.) and in the cities fourteen times (1000 Afs.).
Therefore in the reconstruction process in Afghanistan, restoring the production of wheat is of vital importance. Urgent actions must be taken to reconstruct the destroyed and damaged drains, rivers, streams, canals, springs, dams and wells. As ninty percent of the farmers were using bulls for ploughing and other agricultural needs, a recent adequate assessment shows that two hundred and fifty thousand pairs of bulls are needed to take the wheat growth to the pre-war rate. The rehabilitation and weeding of the agricultural land, the continued struggle against natural calamities, and the improved use of insecticides and fertilizers are certain priorities for the farmers.
When the Red Army invaded Afghanistan, it was carrying banners saying “clothes, bread and housing for the poor” but after 12 years of imposed rule, the Afghans are stiil striving more than ever for bread, clothes and homes. At the same time, the Russians instead of sending foodstuff to this hunger-stricken country are actively supplying arms and ammunitions at the rate of 1,600 tons of fatal weapons daily to the starved Afghans.
o
Page 43