towards different races is furnished by Spain. Permit me to quote from Syed Amir Ali’s fundamental work “The Spirit of Islam”.
Immediately on their arrival on the soil of Spain, the Muslims or Saracens published an edict assuring to the subject races, without any difference, the most ample liberty.
Suevi, Goth, Vandal, Roman and Jew, were all placed on an equal footing. Their women were invited to intermarry with the conquerors...The fidelity of the Arabs in maintaining their promises, the equal-headed justice which they administered to all races and classes, without distinction of any kind, secured them the confidence of the people. ..the Jews profited most by the change of government”, and when many centuries later Spain was re-conquered by Ferdinand and Isabella, innumerable Jews left the country for Muslim lands, preferring a life in exile under Muslim rule to life in their home-country under the new rulers of whose racial and religious tolerance they were not convinced.
Religious Tolerance
And this is another aspect of the principle of the brotherhood of mankind as envisaged and enunciated by Islam: namely religious tolerance.
There is one verse in the Holy Qur’an, however, which not only restates the common origin of man, explains the division of humanity into nations, or races, and tribes, tells us the object and purpose of this division was also the ultimate uni fication of humanity, but goes a step further: It points out to us the one and only criterion, the only standard by which man is judged by God, and thus by which we should also judge our fellow-men. As you will presently see, this criterion is not his color, nor his race, not even his skill and the degree of his intelligence. It is something which to achieve lies within reach of rich or poor, if only he made an effort to cultivate it within himself.
Says the Holy Qur’an:
"O mankind! We created you from a single (pair) of a male and a female, and made you into nations and tribes, that ye may know each other, not that ye may despise each other, verily the most honored of you in the sight of God is (He who is) the most righteous of you. And God hasfull kno wledge and is well acquainted (with all things))
I The Mujahideen, July / A ugust, 1991	I
(Holy Qur’ an 49:13)
The principle of the brotherhood of man laid down here:, observes an author of an English translation of the Holy Qur’an, “is based on the broadest foundation. The address here is not to believers: but to men in general, who are told that they are all, as it were members of one family, and their divisions into races, nations, tribes and families should not lead to estrangements from, but to a better know ledge of each other. Superiority of one over another in this vast brotherhood does not depend on race, nationality, wealth or rank but on righteousness, on the careful observance of duty towards God and fellow-man, on moral greatness,” to which I may be permitted to add: and on the strength of one's “Iman", or faith in the one and only God because it is through faith and through submission unto the will of God alone through which we can attain to moral greatness.
This verse of the Holy Qur’an is the answer of Islam to racism, an answer which, as far as the Muslim community is concerned, did notremain a pious exhortation but sounded the death knell of racial discrimination in the world of Islam as borne out not only by the example set by the Holy Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) but also by all Muslim nations and by the general attitude of the Muslims until the present day. I am inclined by personal experiences gathered during travels in almost all Muslim countries in the course of thelast 25 years, to insist that, in consequence of these teaching of Islam and their translation into practice by the Holy Prophet (PBUH) such a complete change was brought in the minds and hearts of all Muslims that is, that to them racial differences present no problems at all, nay, that they are largely almost totally unaware of, most certainly little disturbed or embarrassed by, such differences.
There are instances galore in the life of the Holy Prophet Muhammad, (PBUH), which show us that, as is the case with regard to all injunctions of the Holy Qur’an, he was the perfect exemplar, the beautiful pattern of conduct also with regard to die application and actualization of the principle of the brotherhood of man in his own dealings with his followers as well as in his personal relations with adherents of other faiths. But we can only appreciate fully how formidable a task it was to establish this
principle among his followers, if we look at the social conditions which prevailed in Arabia before the advent of the H oly Prophet. Let me, in order to illustrate this point, quote from a book of a non- Muslim author, namely from “The social Structure of Islam” by Reuben Levy: “The population of Arabia, outside of a few settled communities embedded in it, has throughout historical times been so constituted as to form a number of groups or tribes, very loosely held together either by loyalty to a particular leader or by the assumption of descent from a common ancestor, whether real or legendary. Within each of such groups or tribes, the independence of individual units—the tents or families—has always been taken as a matter of course and the head of each unit has been regarded as being in status the equal of every other. In the heads of the families lies the power to elect the “Shaykh” or tribal chief, of whom in theory no special qualification is required. In actual practice.however, there is normally a strong prejudice in favour of choosing the “Shaykh” from amongst the members of particular families. At the time of the rise of M uhammad such families held a position of great influence within the community, so that in any claim to authority the factor of birth was considered of paramount importance. Noble ancestry was the supreme test of nobility, and no person whose geneology was not entirely free of hereditary taint—for example, ancestors of servile or negro origin—could be regarded as conforming to the requisite standard. Such persons were relegated to the humbler rank of society and were thus compelled to undertake careers that inevitably marked them as inferior beings...In the same way the old nobility resisted the assumption of equality by other Arabs so the inhabitants of Arabia as a whole refused to consider foreigners as being their peers.” The Arabs regarded themselves as a superior race. And as for the negroes they did not recognize them except as slaves. It is to this situation to which the Holy Qur’ an refers in the following verse:
"And holdfast all together, by theRope whichGod (stretches out for you) and be not divided among yourselves; and remember with gratitude God's favour onyou;forye were enemies, and He joined your hearts in love, so that by 11 is grace ye because brethren; and ye were on the brink of the pit of fire, andHesavedyoufrom it. Thus dothGod make His signs clear to you: That ye may be guided."
(Holy Qur’an 3:103) The essence of the attitude of Islam