Nations in dealing with different countries. Israel has rejected all resolutions passed by United Nations but no action is taken against her. No multi-national force is set up to force Israel to vacate occupied Arab territories. No deadline is set for Israel, asking her to put out of operation its nclear installations. No force is used to compel India to abide by UN resolutions and give right of self-determination to the people of Kashmir.
It seems as if United Nations has been hijacked by United States. UN passed resolutions after resolutions during Gulf war in order to punish and humiliate a Muslim country and even allowed use of force without giving diplomscy a chance to settle the issue peacefully. If this trends continue and double standard policy is not abondoned, United Nations organization is bound to meet the fate of its predecessor, i.e the league of Nations.
USA should know that no nation could dominate the world all alone. This is the fact, supported by history. America should see very soon, Insha Allah that followers of Islam would dash all its dreams of world supremacy to the ground. If Afghan Mujahideen could defeat Soviet Union, having biggest military machine in the world, America and it capitalism are bound to face the same fate.
Beg fears Indian attack on Pakistan
Pakistan chief of the Army staff has said that conditions were fast changing in the region and shadows of war had started appearing.
Addressing troops in the different parts of the country Gen. Beg said that freedom struggle of Kashmiri Mujahideen was gaining momentum with every passing day and it is now impossible to suppress it “It is quite likely that in sheer desperation India could lead to venture against Pakistan,” he said.
I	The Mujahideen, July / A ugust, 1991	I
Although Pakistan’s foreign office was quick to dispel impression created by the remarks of the outgoing Army chief of Pakistan and said that there was no imminent danger of Indian attack. The foreign office denied any threatening or anormal troops movements on the Pak-Indian borders and clarified that chief of Army staff Gen. Mirza Aslam Beg” statement on this account was not directed at the immediate situation.
The foreign office of Pakistan may be having some good reason to issue such a statement but the escalation of Jihad in Kashm ir which is now beyond
Indian’s ability to control, and presence of Israeli commandoes in Indian occupied Kashmir give credence to the views expressed by Pakistan’s Army chief.
There were also reports that Israel in collaboration with India has prepared a plan to attack Pakistan’s nuclear Installations at Kahuta and with the arrest of some of Israeli commandoes by Kashmiri Mujahideen, the conspiracy to attack Pakistan’s nuclear installations stands exposed.
Gen. Mirza Aslam Beg has rightly said that India would not be alone in its adventure against Pakistan as it would be aided by others who are so frantically eager to harm and destabilise Pakistan. He also referred to the presence
■■■■■■■■■Page 37 ■HHK1
of Israeli commandoes in held Kashmir which amply spoke of the designs of the enemy of Pakistan.
Mujahideen plan joint military operations
Another important news which was recieved with great enthusasm and satisfaction was the disclosure of the military representatives of all major seven political organizations of Afghan Mujahideen that joint military operations would soon commence throughout Afghanistan for removal of puppet regime of Kabul and establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
The disclosure which was made at a press conference at Peshawar was attended by military representatives of National Islamic Front, Harakat-e-Inqilab-e-Islami, Ittihad-e-Islami, Afghan National Liberation Front, Jamiat-e-Islami and He'zb-e-Islami Afghanistan.
It is a matter of great satisfaction that Afghan Mujhaideen have further enhanced their cooperation on battle Field despite conspiracies of enemies to sow seeds of hatred and distrust among their different groups. Kabul regime could not withstand United assault of Mujahideen and their recent victories against Najib administration is ample proof of the fact that with greater coordination and cooperation among Mujahideen is key to the success.
Realising the conspiracies being hatched by superpowers and especially America to impose a political sol ution of its own liking on Afghanistan, the commanders declared that military victory of Mujahideen was the only viable solution to Afghan problem.
The military commanders also termed the reported differences between military commanders in central Afghanistan and declared that Mujahideen are united throughout Afghanistan. Wepray to Almighty Allah to help Mujahideen in their sacred cause.