The Mujahideen , ApriUMay, 1990
-
proach to health care is primarily to prevent the occurrence of physical and mental disease and injury.
Clearly, it is better not to have a disease than to have it and try to repair the damage after-wards. In many cases it may not be possible to repair the damage completely, or at all.
For example, there is as yet no known cure for AIDS or lung cancer, but we know the causes of these diseases. By exercising preventive measures the incidence of these diseases can be greatly reduced. In addition to this obvious benefit, prevention costs less than cure. The cost of many preventive measures, for example vaccinations and screening tests, is rather smal 1 and the benefits in terms of saving lives, preventing suffering, and saving the economic resources of a nation are considerable. For these reasons preventive medicine has been gaining popularity around the world and progressively more and more resources are being invested in preventive health services. A preventive approach to health care works in both developed and developing countries, and they both need intersectoral policy planning to implement the best preventive programs.
A good example of an intersectoral approach is Norway, a developed country with poor land resources. They were importing increasing amounts of dairy products such as butter which was harmful to their health. In 1975 nine ministries formed a joint committee to enact a national food policy to emphasize margarine rather than butter, cereals and potatoes rather than meat and sugar, and increased fish consumption. The ministries of agriculture, industry, fisheries, health, environment, trade, foreign affairs,education,and consumers undertook policies affecting pricing, subsidies, processing, imports, marketing, sales, public information, education, regulation of food labeling, and re-
mortality among Afghans. Diarrheal illness is prevented by good hygiene, clean water, and proper use of latrines. Most infantile diarrhea can be controlled and cured in the early stages by homemade so-lutions of water, sugar, and salt.
Intersectoral action is needed for the construction of latrines, production of building materials, pipes, and providing skilled labor. However, maternal education is the key to both the prevention and cure of diarrheal disease. In Ghana, Nigeria, and Sudan a recent survey suggested that maternal education even went a long way to overcome deficient water and toilet facilities.
search. The result was seen ten years later in a decline in cardiovascular mortality.
In post-war Afghanistan, intersectoral policy planning is needed for preventive medicine programs in each of the five major areas of health problems, as follows:-
1.	There are six infectious diseases which are called THE SIX PREVENTABLE DISEASES. They are diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, polio, measles, andTB. They are preventable by immunizations. Intersectoral coordination is needed for the production, storage, transportation, and distribution of the vaccines. Distribution of the vaccines requires assistance of the communication and education sectors to inform and convince families of the importance of immunizations.
2.	Diarrhea or dysentery is responsible for about 30% of the infant
3.	The preventive approach to malaria is twopronged. It includes the diagnosis and cure of malaria among the people to reduce its spread, and killing the vector mosquitos. Diagnosis requires laboratory equipment and cure requires drugs, both of which require production and distribution, educated practitioners and educated consumers (patients). Irrigation water which is essential for the agriculture sector is the breeding grounds for the mosquito population. Research and production facilities are needed to provide mosquito spray which is most lethal to the mosquitos and least likely to harm the environment.
4.	Respiratory infections are a > difficult disease area for the preventive health approach. Health education for the whole community, for example, to avoid sharing cups among large groups such as schools and other institutions, is the chief intersectoral approach. Maternal education to understand the seriousness of the disease when it occurs is also important
5.	Prevention of malnutrition,
Page 51