The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991
\Page 47
THROUGH THE AGES
__________Vi___1_
1
m
AL-QUDS
AL-SHARIF
M Faqir Ahmad
Historically, Al-Quds has been the first Qibla of Muslims and a religious centre of Christians. This city is older than its recorded history of 2000 years. This region has been ravaged for several times. Many rulers have come and gone. This city has seen different religions alternatively. Once this city was named after Hazrat Dawood, called Jerusalem. Jerusalem means’ place of peace’ In 970 B.C., when Hazrat Suleman was alive, there was built a place of worship called ‘structure of Suleman’. Al-Quds, built on the mountain Sehon, with a hight of 2800 ft from the sea level. It is 100 kilometre far from Ghaza and Tel Avivc. In 70 A.D. it was captured by Jews who destroyed its place of worship. Later on even its name was changed. Then came the Christians. They captured the city and built their Churches. The next was the emperor of Iran who defeated the Christians and ruled there for fourteen years. He too was defeated by Shah Haroqul.
In the times of Muslims Hazrat Umar Farooq took this great city under an agreement. The Christians were allowed to worship there. They were forbidden from building new churches. The Christians would come from all over the world and wordhip. Then the Christians started spying. The Muslim rulers reacted by imposing some restrictions on the activities of Christians. They were not ready to accept the restrictions. The priests instigated the Christians against the Muslims which culminated into the wars of crusade. In 490 A.D., on the declaration of war by Lhe pope, hundreds of thousand of the Christians attacked Al-Quds. After a
seige of forty days and the killings of 60,000 they succeeded in capturing the city. The bigotted priests had poisoned their minds about Muslims. They thought the Muslims as the usurpers in the city which, they claimed was the worship place of the Christ only. The Muslims were very perturbed by the events but the weak rulers of Bughdad could not help them. The Christians succeeded in capturing the whole of Syria and Palestine in a very short time.
Allah Almighty sent Nooruddeen Zangi for the help of Muslims who retook many captured areas from Christians. They became frightened to the extent that they asked Europe for help. The help came from France and Germany but most of their army was destroyed by Nooruddeen Zangi. After his death came Sulahuddcen Ayubi who captured most of the lost areas. The Christians were driven from all the areas to Al-Quds. Al-Quds too was recovered after a protracted struggle of 91 years. This shook the whole Christians world. They were allowed to make pilgrimage to Al-Quds for several times. The Christians tried to retake it but to no avail. The crusades ended after a span of 100 years. There came a time when Tatars of Khwarzm killed, plundered and looted in Jerusalem.
For 300 years the Egyptians and the Uthmanis ruled the city. Ibrahim Pasha was the next in line to succeed thcm.But only after 10 years he too was defeated by Uthmanis. By that time in the whole of Palestine the number of the Jews was 8000.
After that, in the recent past started the great conspiracy between the English and the Jews. Britain and America brought the Jews from all over the world to Palestine and established
the Jewish rule. They halved not only Palestine but also Jerusalem. TheUnited Nations had called the Jerusalem an international area but the Jews attacked it on may 15,1948. The Muslims resisted but the Jews succeeded in grabbing it. The call of Azan was silenced after eight centuries in Al-Quds-Sharif.The tragedy of Al-Quds which is the land of one lakh messengers of Allah (SwT) is the greatest. The relation of the Muslims with A1 -Quds is very old. It was our first Qibla till 15 Sha,aban 2 Hijra when Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) was offering his Zuhur prayers, Allah (SwT) commanded him to turn his face from Baitul Muqaddas to Ka.abatullah. Al-Quds Al-Sharif is the Lhird sacred city of Muslims after Makkah Mu,azzama and Madina Munawwara..
continued from Page 27
Palestine • • •
the Muslim people and governments to support the cause of Intifadha wholeheartedly. The plans for new settlements in theoccupied land mustbe stopped at all cost. Any negligence on the part of M uslim at this moment would cost them heavily. The call of the hour is a united support for Palestinian brethem. The Muslims cannot afford to waste their lime and energies in their own quarrels. Muslims are not weak but unfortunately they easily fall ^rey to the enemy conspiracies and start their infightings. Now this must be changed. Let us help our Palestinian brethem. let there be an echo of Allaho Akbar in Masjidi Aqsa. let us take on the Israeli grabbers of the Palestinian land. Insha, Allah Intifadha shall be victorious and the zionist ev il shall be doomed to failure.