The Mujahideen, October/November, 1991 ». V	■'■	'is-..-	"	'	v Page 20	&
f



1- 15,000 Muslims, many of them Ulcm mas, were killed during the start of his rule.
2- Many laws repugnant to Islam were enforced.
3- The property of dissident Musi ims was confiscated.
iiwwwnMwninwiwt
communist coup d etat. Daud was no more relevant and the stage was set for Taraki, a known communist in Afghanistan. At first Russians felt no need for their massive military intervention. To them Taraki could do the job of Communalization of Afghanistan. The misdeeds of Taraki may be enumerated as:-
Hafizullah Amin who killed Taraki. Amin was also unable to control the situation because of the Muslim uprising. So Russia found no other way but to directly invade Afghanistan on Dec 27, 1979. Amin was killed and Babrak
in favour of the Mujahideen. They fight with the help of their faith.
Afghan Jihad has entered its final stage. In this regard the brotherly Muslim countries of Pakistan, Iran
4-	Religious programmes were stopped from radio.
5-	Islamic subjects were banned in educational institutions and instead communist dogmas were taught.
7-	Peasants, workers and women were forced to, participate in the programmes of the socialistculture’.
8-	The existence of God was publicly denied.
Butcommunism was faced with a nation having no precedence of slavery. The Ulema were busy warning the pcoplcof the communist thrust since the rule of Zahir Shah. They had rejected the so-called cultural revolution of Zahir Shah. They were conscious of the threat and declared Jihad against the communist regime. The regime did its utmost to weaken the resistance but could not. They used napalm bombs and poisonous gas against the Mujahideen. On March 15, 1979 about20,000 Muslims were martyred in Herat. But all the terror fired back. Jihad spread to the wjiole of Afghanistan and the regime forces were unable to come out of their tanks. Russia found no other way but replaced taraki with the puppet
Karmal, with the help of 150.000Russia forces, became the puppet president. Jihad was wide spread and Karmal failed in his communism bid of Afghanistan. Then came Najib who took KarmaFs seat. DidNajibdclivergoods?Certainly not. He alongwilh 150,000 Russian forces came to knees. The Russian troops left Afghanistan without any request by Mujahideen. Najib was left to his fate. Now he is in the process of fleeing the country.
Afghans paid the price of 1.5 million martyred for the cause of Islam. This Jihad paved the- way for the liberation of the Muslims of Central Asia. Some of the republics have declared their independence while others are preparing to do so. In Afghanistan itself 90% of the territory has been liberated. Khost has been captured, and pther large cities are under the siege of Mujahideen. Gardcz is.imminent to fall to Mujahids. Kabul is the next target. Qandahar is encircled completely. Russia cannot supply more arms to Kabul regime. But India is taking the position of Russia. America is preparing to make supplies to India for this purpose. They arc not ready to see an Islamic government in Afghanistan. But despite all the hurdles in the way the situation in the country is
and Saudi Arabia have a great role to play. Success of Jihad in Afghanistan is linked to the formation of the envisioned Islamic bloc stretching from Central Asia to Turkey, Iran Afghanistan, Pakistan and Kashmir. This regional Islamic bloc combined with the Middle East would be a counterweight to the anti-Islamic forces but the key is Afghanistan. Therefore the regional Muslim powers and Saudi Arabia must help their brothers in Afghanistan politically, morally and materially. No peace formula be accepted disregarding Jihadi forces. No communist, open or disguised can play a role. No foreign agent can be assigned a responsible position in the country. To accept such a proposal is the negation of 12 years of Jihad.
As for the Central Asian republics, Muslim powers should also make contacts with the newly independent Central Asian states. They mustbehelped in all fields. Last but not least, the O.I.C which has remained dormant during the Gulf crisis, must be activated. It must not be a tool in the hands of the West but for the Muslim peoples. •
