<a>	Security post,
<l)>	Spin Buldak garrison,
<e)	Spin Buldak town.
residing on both sides of the border The tribals have traditional enemity since six decades, but Afghan Jehad has shattered the rifts by converting them on the basis of Islam and anti Islam The major force of Noorzai and Achakzai has joined the ranks of Mujahideen.
Spin Buldak having the population of 4,000 is the gateway of Qandahar where anti Pakistan elements were bribed and instigated for not only attacking the Pakistan border but carrying out subversive activities in Baluchistan and Sind as well. The Mujahideen have seized several documents from Spin Buldak which indicate about the subversive network and the persons who were engaged in Pakistan. Spin Buldak was strong Soviet base on Pak-Afghan border, the capturing of which utmost necessary after signing Geneva accord
The resistance sources had
received informations about the separation of Afghanistan, repatriation of deposed Zahir Shah and to create rifts among the Mujahideen's organizations According to Soviet plan, the Kabul malitia led by Asmatullah 'Tasleem" was to lay arms before the so-called Mujahideen who afterwards emerge the Kabul malitia and hand over the administration of Spin Buldak to Asmatullah. The plan was further aimed at to close the Mujahideen routes by declaring Spin Buldak as liberated area.
During the second phase of Soviet drama the Qandahar's Governor was meant for handing over the city to the socalled Mujahideen and Tasleem’s malitia. By this way, the invading Soviet forces wanted to vacume the pressure of the Mujahideen as saying that the "Mujahideen" are controlling the Qandahar city The final stage of this plan was to the Qandahar city. The final stage of this plan was to "inagugrate the session of Loi Jirga" in which pro Zahir Shah elements were to participate as
representatives of Afghan nation The "Loi Jirga" had to decide the return of Zahir Shah and appoint him as monarch of Afghanistan. This was a complete conspiracy against the interim government formed by the Seven Party Alliance. According to reliable sources the British intelligence department MI-5 was also active in this plan.
The Mujahideen associated with Seven Party Alliance held the meeting to review the Soviet design After long discussion the military command and Majlis-e-Shoora approved Spin Buldak operation. The military command was consisted of the Mujahideen associated with Hizbe Islami Afghanistan, Jamiate Islami, Ittehade Islami and Hizbe Islami (Younas Khalis) It was decided that first the security posts around Spin Buldak will be wiped out and afterwards Tasleem malitia headquarter will be targetted which ultimately would lead to
The Mujahideen Monthly
19
November 1988