The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
Page 23
'Commander9 s Joint Press V. Conference ^
Jihad in Full Swing
Military representatives of the seven major political organizations of Mujahideen while addressing a joint news conference in Peshawar on Sunday disclosed that joint military operations of Mujahideen will commence soon all over Afghanistan for the removal of the puppet regime of Kabul and establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, reports Afghan News Agency.
Those who addressed the press conference included military representali ve of National Islam ic Front, Mohammad Gul, Harakat-e-Inqilab-i-Islami’s Sher Mohammad Khan, Ittehad-e-Islami’s Mohammad Musa, Hameedullah Jan of Afghan National Liberation Front, Jamiat-e-e_slami’s Mehrabuddin, Kabir Khan of Hezb-i-Islami (Hekmatyar).
Giving a resume of the Jihad activities in Afghanistan the comanders said that Mujahideen destroyed 3,500 aircrafts, including bombarda nd transport planes and helicopters, of the Kabul regime after the Russian intervention in Afghanistan 26,000 tanks, armoured vehicles and military trucks
were also destroyed in the 12 years Jihad. Giving an account of the regime arsenal they said that before the Russian invasion of Afghanistan. Kabul regime had only 2,800 tanks. APCs and military trucks of aircrafts, But after the communists intervention! in the country they used the Russian airforce and Russian army which caused large scale devastation to the nation.
The commanders claimed that during the current month Mujahideen scored major military victories in Logar, Maidan Wardak, Gardez, Nengerhar, Badakhshan, Qandahar, Herat and Faryab provinces. They said thatduring the 45 days war in Maidan Wardak province Mujahideen repulsed regimeoffensivesandkilled 135 soldiers, destroyed 10 tanks and APCs while captured 13 military posts. They claimed that a large number of the regime soldiers including the defence minister of the regime Gen. Nabi Azemi and a number of military officers were injured.
The commanders said that Mujahideen captured the Zabuk garrison in Badakhshan province in which 137 militiamen and soldiers were captured
and 36 of them were killed during action. Two Mujahideen laid down their lives in these operation.
The newsmen were told that
Mujahideen have increased theirpressure on the Eskhaam district of Badakhshan province bordering Soviet Union. The district is of very strategic importance and Mujahideen’s victory was close as they captured six security posts of strategic importance on July 20. The commanders disclosed that more than 500 militiamen headed by militia commander Shadi Khan defected to Mujahideen at in Herat province recently and brought with them 800 pieces of weapons.
They further revealed that in different districts of Herat including Zinda Jan, Ghoryan and Injeel, Mujahideen ooperations were on the peak. In Sherin Tagab district of Faryab province Mujahideen captured five military posts of the regime and prison for the political prisoners from where a number of prisoners including a Mujahideen commander Adam Khan were released.
jr *	“	\
I Military commanders of seven j major Mujahideen organizations | heve disclosed a joint operations | strategy against enemy through-j out Afghanistan. They are very j much hopeful of a military victory \ against the Najib regime.
			1
Pllllllii			jA
The representatives of the different political organizations of Mujahideen were fully united inside