
The Mujahideen, October I November. 1991
	Xnti-American	
sentiments ii	ntensify in the Mi	tslim World
By: A llamudin Alheer
Robert B. Oklay, former US ambassador to Pakistan, has warned that anti-American campaigns in some Islamic countries have increased feelings against
Washington. According to the voice of America, Oklay, who is also the senior co-ordinator of the US Institute of peace, said that efforts to prove the United States an enemy of Islam were stepped up in the wake of the Gulf War. He said that in many Muslim countries information revolution has doubled the public awareness to participate in the formation of governments and official decision making. Oklay, while addressing a seminar on the
Middle East arranged by the Centre for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said "anger against the United States is visible which is a result of the US support for Israel." The belief that there is a great social and economic inequality between the ruling classes and the people in the countries friendly to the United States has also increased anti-US feelings. Such beliefs were not always right, he said.
“In my view more worrying is the deliberate effort to portray the US as anti-Islamic force. As these things are often said by religious scholars before the uneducated masses, they take root in their minds. More efforts are needed to dispel such dangerous1 ideas. Therefore, the government *and nqp-government organizations in the United States should work together . to improve America’s image in the Islamic World.”
Oklay remarked that extraordinary importance is given to Islam in movements for national, regional and racial liberation. Afghan Mujahideen’s drawn out war against the Soviet Union has increased the importance of religion as they fought this war under the banner of Islam.
Accordipg to Robert Oklay,
many Muslims in the Sub-continent consider the Intifada an Islamic struggle and believe Islam would ultimately overcome Israel. According to him uprising against India, which started two years ago, is still strong and is under the influence of Islam. As it happened in the occupied territories of West Bank and Gaza Strip, the movement in Kashmir is gaining momentum and is pushing moderate and traditional parties into background. Oklay recalled that during the Gulf war many in the Islamic countries believed that Saddam’s war against the United States would help the Islamic movements world over. They considered Saddam Hussain a champion of Islam and the oppressed. The defeat, however, tumished his image. So the expected revolutionary changes in the Islamic world as a result of Gulf crisis did not take place. The situation, he said, has returned to normal.
He said that political evolution in the Central Asian republics of the Soviet Union has opened the doors for Islamic influence. He expected that Iran, Pakistan and Turkey would take keen interest in these new countries. Saudi Arabia and other Islamic countries will not only take keen interest ip the happenings of the Central Asia but also possibly influence the formation of future governments there. He pointed out that the fundamentalist Ikhwan-ul-Muslimeen party and all organizations linked with it tried to bring the people to the streets