Loading booty captured in Khawa,a Umari
early in the morning about 80 tanks, 12 helicopter gunships and four jets launched an offensive on the Paidarow stronghold of Sarwar Khan and the villages around it. Mahy cattle were killed and more than 50 houses destroyed but no one was killed or wounded.
Meanwhile, the government installed another district headquarters in a building near the original centre and by evening the Russian forces had returned to Ghazni.
Sarwar Khan made his second attack this year in October when a large Russian force was passing through .the district to make an offensive on Paktika province to the south.
The force, which included a large number of tanks, was stationed around Ghazni city and Khawaja Umary district while waiting for supplies and reinforcements from Wardak province.
Surveilling the force Sarwar Khan decided to use the situation to his advantage and attack the district. headquarters. “He knew that the presence of such a large force would cause the Russian troops and com-' munist militias to rplax ^heir guard, possibly enabling him to make a successful raid on the. headquarters.
H?-told some of his Mujahideen to take up a position near the
district headquarters and to remain there overnight. He said he would mount an operation against the base the following day.
Next morning he drove one of his brand new Russian trucks towards the district headquarters, assuming that people would think it was Russians on their way there for some type of business.
When he arrived at the main gates he sent one of his Mujahideen to the guards and told him to ask for a doctor.
The Mujahid obeyed his com-
mander and asked the guard for a doctor. The guard asked, 'what for? who are you and where are you from?”
The Mujahid told him that he was one of Sarwar Khan's Mujahideen and they had a wounded man in the truck. At this the guard started yelling wildly to the Ulas-wal and district commander that Sarwar Khan was outside the building.
All the administrative staff inside, about 16, rushed out with their arms eager to arrest Sarwar Khan. When all the staff had come outside the Commander orders the Mujahideen, including those who had taken up a position near the base overnight, to open fire. After a few seconds all 16 were dead.
Sarwar Khan and his Mujahideen took their arms and ammunition as booty and started to drive back to their headquarters. While passing a Russian post, they were attacked and Sarwar Khan ordered his Muja hideen to jump out of the truck but told the dciver to keep going.
The Mujahideen kept the Russians busy for about an hour while the driver reached their headquarters safely. Several Russians were killed and he and his Mujahideen later returned to their base without further trouble.
i
22
The Mujahideen Monthly