The United States former ambassador to Pakistan Mr. Robert B. Oklay has recendy elaborated on the theory of a ‘ New World Order ’. He said that the American proposed new world order meant peaceful settlement of international disputes, enhancement of international co-operation, solidarity against aggression, lessening of confrontations and reduction in arms. Before taking his statement on its face value we must look around to find the secret agreements between US and Isrcal; the Israeli bombardment of a sovereign state, Lebanon, the sole attention paid to disarm Iraq and military/ economic sanctions against Pakistan. These measures, discriminatory in natrue, are
sufficient to show what the ‘New World Order’ has in store for the Muslims in the globe.
The whole wolrd is witness to the fact that the Americas are interested only in theirs own supremacy. They have a despicable record in Vietnam, their collaboration with the terrorist state
of Israel is also well known. Months before they declared their secret agreements with Isarel. These secret agreeements mean a lot. Then who is to hoodwink.
If the U. S wants reduction in armaments the best thing is to begin the charity at home. Destroy your own arsenals, conventional as well as non-conventional. Now you have no excuse of Russian danger as it has become your surrogate like Britain. If you are well-intentioned , China too will follow suit. But this is not the case. The new world order has the first clause to the effect of America being the supreme power. That is why they want a ‘new world order’ instead of ‘an orderly world’.
I remember the Soviet Union campaigning for world peace after the second world war was over. It had organized big international conferences on the subject. They had even mobilised a sign campaign against war and aggression. But then all of a sudden the whole process stopped, why? Because after the II war Russia was afraid of
American nuclear capability already demonstrated in Heroshima. But when Russia acquied the same capability itself it abandoner its movement for world peace. It was not peace that Russia was struggling for; they wanted only to ward off the American nuclear danger by raising hue and cry for world peace. By doing so America would come under the pressure of world public opinion forgetting to use its force against Russia. The same is the case with the new world order it is not order that is sought but only to disarm and enslave some states under the glorious label of new world order. Those who are betenoir are to be disarmed and punished. The pet ones are allowed and helped in arming themselves and attacking others. What a discriminatory ‘new world order’! To substantiate the point more we should recall a fresh statement by James Backer U.S Secretary of State wherein he has stated that America will notallow China to sell missiles to Pakistan and Syria. Keeping in view the favourable attitude of America towards Israel etc one comes to know the blue print of the proposed order.
There is also a strong opinion circulating in certain circles. It says that emphasising the new world order in place of envigorating the already existing charter of the United Nations for world peace, envisages another dimension also. According to this theory America, through the proposed order, wants to circumscribe the economic giants like Germany in the West and Japan in the East. As the two powers pose economic challenges to the U. S, so the need to minimise their power. Any how, all facts seem to point to anything but a just international system applicable to all nations equally. In case we are wrong the concerned ones are invited to prove.