.—"EDITORIAL ========
Jinlandizaiion .
A recent report in the Christian Science Monitor about the "Finiand of Afghanistan" and what is believed to be a Soviet overture towards a final solution of the crisis seems as ridiculous and oppobrious as the invasion of Afghanistan itself.
If the Soviets and the Americans really make such an agreement it will only prove the hypocrisy of the Superpowers and the steadily increasing rejection of the Soviets' intervention in Afghanistan by the Russian rank and file and the majority of its military officers.
The truth about this unjust and brutal war being waged by the Red Army against the Mujahideen, its atrocities and heavy los'ses, is no longer a secret to the people of the USSR — nor is it acceptable to them..
In invading Afghanistan the Soviet government underestimated the resolve of the Afghan people to fight and made the mistake of comparing our Muslim nation with people of Czechoslovakia and Hungary — two nations who submitted to Moscow in the face of oppression.
History has been a witness to the fact that the Afghan people have never been subjugated by any foreign power. The British imperialists learned many good lessons from their bitter experiences in Afghanistan and these should have been reflected upon by the Russians before they invaded.
The idea of the Finiandization of Afghanistan or turning Pakistan into a so-called Islamic Austria is absurd. The Afghan Muja-hid nation will never allow any foreign power to dictate their system of governments. As tar as the Afghans are concerned will never bow down to any foreign trusteeship of their affairs.
Our Mujahid nation has not offered so much sacrifice just for the sake of being
of Afghanistan ,}
neutral and impotent bat instead! is fighting to establish an Islamic state which truly non-aligned.
Trying to turn Afghanistan into another Finland is tantamount to wasting the blood of one million martyrs and as such, regardless of the cost, we will not allow the Superpowers to compromise on the very destiny of our heroic nation.
The continuing massacres of our people and destruction of our food supplies and livestock by the Russians instead of lowering our morale enhances it and stiffens our determination to fight on.
It is the Russian army that is demoralised and considers the war purposeless and many Russian troops recognise the invasion for what it is — a lust for expansion on the part of the Kremlin's rulers.
From the very outset the resistance has had only meagre resources at it disposal but despite this the Kremlin gerontocracy found it necessary to despatch 85,000 troops to bolster its puppets who had utterly failed to contain the Mujahideen.
Following the invasion the world did not expect the Mujahideen to be able to continue their struggle for even a few months but our conviction in Allah	(All Glory be to Him) and
our fortitude in the face of hardships enabled us to astonish friends and foes alike.
V\/e believe the more conspiracies hatched against the Mujahideen the more cohesion and co-ordination there will be among us.
Once again we reiterate the well-known position of the Mujahideen — we wiJI fight to the last Afghan until we achieve our ideal; an Islamic, free, independent Afghanistan, which is truly non-aligned.
The Mujahideen Monthly
5