The Mujahideen, OctoberNovember, 1991 ®
s Page 35 ms
.*.^
Position of Women

in Islam
Introduction. This is the second part of our articles on Women written by one of our sisters: Ummu Abdullah, in this series, the writer tries to explain that; the phrase: Position of Women in Islam, implies the way by which Islam treats women with regards to their dignity, honour and rights.
C^UmmuAbdullaH^
In fact some heretics are of the contrary opinion about Islam and the rights of women. According to a scholar, these people are of the opinion that Islam regards women as lowly, totally weakling and captives in the hands of men. To these people women are deprived of all rights and priviledges. They are also deprived of the blessings of letters (education) and therefore women are required to stay at home with their eyes closed and detached from the society.
When one examined the position of women in Islam one would be able to see that these people are talking from a purely ignorant perspective.
Islam as a religion preserves * the dignity of women and thereby outlines their rights hence women are endowed with various rights. These rights include that of marriage with other attendant rights, such as dower and owning of property which are all embeded in marriage so also are the right of divorce, the right to fedupation, politics and religion:
To start with Islam considers men and women equal as far as human
rights are concerned. The Holy Prophet .of Islam (P.B.O.H) “Women are the twin halves of men”. In the light of this we can infer that Islam does not only recognize human personalty for both men and women but it also consider them as equal in all rights and human priviledges.
The holy book of Islam as well often speaks of two mates which are men and women. The Holy Qur’an says both men and women are created from a single soul. At times the Holy Qur’an refers to men and women in a single language. To butress this fact there are some references in the Holy Qur’an where Almighty Allah refers to both men and women as partners, and friends
to one another. •
*	,m
This then means that women are also equal to their male counterparts in all respects. Although this does not mean that there are no differences betweep the two sexes. Men are physically stronger than their women counterparts. Men are biologically different from women. Among those Qur’anic references that refer to both ipale and female as equal include the followings: -
“O mankind! reVere your Lord who
created you from a single soul, and from
it created of like nature. His mate and ------------------r---------------------
from them both scattered like seeds countless! men and women”. 1
“O mankind we created you from a single (pair) of a male and female and made you into nations and tribes”2
“And the believer, the men and the women are friends of one another”.3
In all the verses of the Holy Qur’an quoted above men and women are equally addressed in the word mankind. In Islam women are regarded as the axis of the society because they are the mothers of the society. The family is a small union of individuals which include women. A society lacking mothers (women) is not complete. When a mother fails to perform her natural duties in a family the cordial relations of the members is affected because Islam gives the dignity of training children to mother. Although men are also concerned in the training of children but it is the mothers that are majorly charged with this role. Infact no society can function without women. The ultimate perfection of the family dependstm the women in that family.
t
The Holy Prophet (P.B.O.H) while defining the dignity of women was quoted to have said thus:-
“If a society is good the women of that