The Mujahideen , AprillMay, 1990
A young	pioneer
This is the story or a 14 year old boy from Paktia Province, who was very brave and courageous. He always wanted to go to Jihad fronts with his Mujahid brothers, but his parents did not allow him to go because he was too young.
One day the opportunity came for him to carry out his wish. The sun was shining and birds were singing, villagers were busy in their work. Suddenly, there came the sound of helicopters and tanks through the quietness of the village. Armed Russian troops appeared and attacked. A savage Russian commander with a loud and angry voice ordered the villagers, “O people you must support our regime by saying,
Hurrah, Hurrah!"
The villagers refused to obey him. Instead of shouting “Hurrah! Hurrah!” they all cried out with one voice “Allah-u Akbar.”
When the cruel commander heard these words, he got angry and ordered his soldiers to kill them at once and set fire to the village. On that day many innocent villagers were martyred. Fortunately, a young boy, Sakhi, was saved because he was a shepherd and at the time of the invasion he was on the top of the mountains grazing his sheep. The sound of shooting and the smoke of the fire made him run and go back to this village. When he saw that all the people had been killed, he quickly went to the next village and announced. “O people, the savage and blood-thirsty Russians have attacked our village and martyred all the people. We must have the courage to take revenge from them.”
Then he came to the Mujahideen commander Abdul-Hadi. When Hadi saw the young boy ’ s bravery
and courage he was very pleased with him and summoned all his Mujahideen and commanded them to attack the Russian arm y and rescue the neighboring village. When the Mujahideen reached the village, the Russian army had already dug a mass grave for the dead bodies of the villagers and had filled it with a tractor. The commander cried out, “Now is the time to attack our enemy and the enemy of Islam.” The fighting began as the Mujahideen shouted their slogan “Allah-u Akbar” and they killed most of
the savage Russians.
During the fighting Sakhi saw a Russian soldier trying to kill an old man. Before the soldier was able to shoot him, Sakhi rushed out quickly and killed the cruel soldier and rescued the old man. Meanwhile Abdul-Hadi came and pointed to the Russian commander’s camp. He told Sakhi that it was now time for him to take revenge of the killing of his fellow villagers from the Russians.
When Sakhi entered the savage Russian commander’s camp with his weapon, the commander was drinking alcohol; without wasting any time or
being scared Sakhi shot him and sent his bad soul to the deepest part of the Hell. When they had successfully finished their battle, the Mujahideen commander Abdul-Hadi ordered his soldiers to leave quickly before the Russians could come to rescue their soldiers. While they were on their way, hundreds of helicopters and parachutes suddenly appeared in the sky and started shooting and spreading gas poison over the Mujahideen and some of them died. Fortunately many were hidden and got safely back to their village. However Sakhi had sunk into a coma, but when Abdul-Hadi saw the innocent boy he saved him quickly from the gas poison, and Almighty Allah gave this brave kid a new life back. When the battle was over the brave soldiers returned to their villages, the young Mujahid delivered a speech to his people. “Look people, we do not have to think that we have less power than our enemy. Remember, we have more power because we have the light of Islam in our hearts. You all witnessed a super power’s defeat against a few Mujahideen. O people, it all was because we believe in Almighty Allah and we always get help from Him”
Present on the occasion, Abdul Hadi, the Mujahideen commander, spoke highly of Sakhi for his bravery and described what he had done during the fighting. With an air of pride he told the villagers, “My brave and Muslim people, you all have come to know the bravery of this young boy in Jihad. It all means that the Russian Communist regime cannot stand even to our small children. So how can they hope to take our homeland and our freedom”. Then the brave Afghan Mujahideen celebrated their victory with the slogan of “Allah-u Akbar,” “Allah-u Akbar.”
By: MahboobaQureshi
Page 46