The Mujahideen, April!May, 1990
Ministry of National Defense, the Military University, and the Ministry of Malaria and Leishmania. Rare manuscripts and books from the palace, the public library of Kabul, the National Archives of Afghanistan, and the public libraries of Mazar-i-Sharif, Herat,
Ghazni, Qandahar and Qunduz, as well as private libraries such as those of M. Naim, and M. Sarwar Nashir were also hurriedly removed by air. The same fate befell the golden treasures of Telia Tapa and Ai-Khanum : removed by the Red Army or by those who were introduced as “archaeological experts and advisors.” Even the texts of the best Afghan dramas were taken away by the Russian “cultural advisors.” Every portable article which could be viewed to have historical or cultural value was taken out of Afghanistan, while mosques and monuments were ruined where they stood.
We should not be surprised to find that the Afghans now feel that modem weapons like Stingers, and even tanks and bombers, are just extensions of the guns they received when they were a 12 year-old boy; they are just a modem type of gun needed to protect the Afghan resources, families, land, and, most of all, religion. Indeed, what reassurance is there that these weapons are not needed when theRussians continue to use their tanks against Uzbeks and Tajiks across the border?
At the same time, both the West and the Russians must remember that the doctrine of the Afghan revolutionary-type war was not just national or cultural preservation but the religion of Islam. The duty to protect mosques, Muslim land, and the freedom of religious practice has driven the Jihad to its victorious conclusion. Afghans, not only fought for Islam, but willingly died for the cause. When both the West and the Russians are attacking Muslims around the world, how will the Afghans give up
the weapons that freed them and may also be needed to free other Muslim people to whom Afghans are bound as Muslim brothers?
It is not hard to see that the Russians would like to have a docile
demilitarized nation at their doorstep, as helpless as a newborn puppy, instead of a fierce freedom-loving revolutionary army, like a lion uneasily prowling for the rest of its supper. Not only are they upset about the violence they believe is currently being exported to their Central
Asian republics, but they also are beginning to see that all their weapons, all the $300 million of military aid per month poured into Kabul over the past year, will soon be in the hands of a popularly-elected Mujahideen government.
No matter what one would wish, and no matter what promises either side makes, demilitarization of Afghanistan is not going to happen. But that does not mean that there cannot be
peace. The Afghans, knowing so well the capacity of weapons for destruction, also know well the principles of making agreements that provide for a lasting peace. Is it a fair agreement if Russians ask the Afghans to give up their weapons while Russians would never agree to the same? Is it fair that Russians have not only killed and maimed, not only destroyed homes and mosques, not only stolen the historical and cultural treasures,but also ruined the land for production for decades to come by the damage to the canals and orchards, and by the unknown acres of buried mines, and the only compensation they offer is to “withdraw”their occupying army and to “allow” elections?
Instead of asking for demilitarization of Afghanistan, let the Russians
ask what compensation would be acceptable to the Afghans. Let the Russians rebuild the mosques, return the Afghan museum treasures, provide the maps of mines and the latest de-mining equipment, re-plant the orchards, and re-open the canals, and ensure the religious and human freedoms to people on both sides of the border. Still the scars will remain, still the Afghans will not give up their guns, but then maybe peace will have a chance.
Instead of asking for demilitarization of Afghanistan, let the Russians ask what compensation would be acceptable to the Afghans.
Page 19