POWER STATIONS DESTROYED IN RUSSIAN TERRITORY
In a daring raid into Russian territory Mujahideen from the Hezb-i-Islami have blown up two hydro-electric power stations and destroyed five tanks at Baghoshakhak village in the Tajikistan Republic.
The raid was carried out by 35 Mujahideen from Baharak district, in northern Afghanistan, province of Badakhshan.
During the fighting 18 Muslim soldiers from two Soviet border security posts surrendered to the Mujahideen and joined their brothers in the raid. Ten of those who defected were later martyred in fighting against the Russians in Afghanistan.
The Mujahideen entered Russia on December 20 by crossing the Oxus river in rubber boats and -within two hours of being on Soviet soil the Communists deployed many helicopter gunships, ■ -y ■ ■  A
jets and paratroopers to try to recapture the 18 defectors.
The Russians landed most of their troops at the border town of Sarghilan and a squardon of Mig -23 jets and SU—27 fighter-bombers started bombing Mujahideen positions in the Eshkashim and Baharak districts in Afghanistan.
In the bombing scores of.civilians were killed and many houses destroyed. A Mujahideen Commander, Abdul Jalil, shot down two SU—27s with a Ziguak anti aircraft machinegun but was later martyred with three other Mujahideen.
In the course of the fighting at
^	^	y	Ai	i
Russian Forces Retreated in Herat
Sarghilan town and in the districts of Baharak and Eshkashim about 100 Russian soldiers were taken prisoner.
The fighting continued for about two weeks and the Russians incurred hundreds of casualties while 25 Mujahideen were martyred and many wounded.
On January 10 in a bid to rescue the Russian soldiers that had been taken prisoner the Russians dropped hundreds of paratroopers and in the fighting that followed the captives were killed.
During the fighting the Mujahideen captured arms, ammunition and supplies from the enemy, including 350 Kalashinkovs, 13 Ziguak anti-aircraft machine guns and five Grenov heavy machine-guns.
/	A ■ ■
different organizations with the Mujahideen of Hezbi-i-lslami Afghanistan, particularly from Commander Saifultah of the. Jamiat-i-Islami.
Russian forces have attacked the Du-Aab and Khakari headquarters of the Hezb-i-lslami but have been beaten back after six days of fierce fighting.
The Russian forces included a huge column of tanks, armoured persdnnel carriers and army trucks mounted with long range missiles.
The attack started on Jan. 9 and according to a wireless report the fighting raged till 15 January when the Russians were forced to withdraw with heavy casualties and equipment losses.
During the fighting 170 so-called Karmal soldiers, 100 of them armed, defected to the Mujahideen. About 45 tanks, APCs and trucks were destroyed and about 180 Russian troops were either killed or wounded.
Seven Mujahideen were martyred and 12 seriously injured. The report adds that during the ojDer-ation there was complete cooperation and coordination among
NANGARHAR PROVINCE
Mujahideen from the Hazrat Umar Farooq. fronts have attacked the Sarhadari and Lalpur districts, destroying the local headquarters and killing a large number of Russain and Karmal Voops.
During the attack, took plage last week, the district administration building caught fire, causing explosions in an Ammunition depot. One Mujahid ,was martyred and another seriously wounded.
34
The Mujahideen Monthly