Comrnumsi celebrations of the Russian invasion of Afghanistan held in New Baghlan city, the provincial capital, have been disrup-
ted by a Mujahideen attack.
On December 27 Mujahideen from the Al-Masahaff Front attacked the Russian army base in the city where local communists and Russians were celebrating the invasion day
The communists regard the invasion as part of the "Saur Revolution of April 1978" in which Nur Muhammed Taraki killed the country's president, Sardar Daoud, and seized power
The Mujahideen, using mortars, 82mm cannon and PRG-7s (rocket propelled grenades), destroyed two tanks and one vehicle parked nearby to protect the communists. Several people were injured and the meeting had to be disbanded.
On the same day another group of Mujahideen attacked the Spin-zar post of New Baghlan city and killed eight civilians and army officers who were members of the Parcham faction of the People's Democratic Party.
The next day the Russian-Afghan army retaliated by attacking the Mujahideen's headquarters in Imam Qattibah in central Baghlan. The Mujahideen resisted and fighting continued for about 10 hours. During the operation eight tanks and trucks were destroyed by Mujahideen using RPG—7s and 82mm cannons. About 65 Russian-Afghan troops were killed and dozens of others injured. Russian artillery and airc/aft shelled and bombea nearby villages, which
had been vacated, because they believed the Mujahideen were using them as hideouts. Two Mujahids were injured by the shelling.
The next morning the Russian-Afghan army launched another offensive which continued throughout the day. The Mujahideen
destroyed 12 army vehicles and armoured personnel carriers (APGs) with RPG—7s and mines. About 50 Russians were killed or wounded. One Mujahid was martyred and another injured.
On Dec. 30 the Mujahideen ambushed Russians patrolling the area, killing five and seizing their rifles and ammunition. The Russians retaliated with heavy shelling which destroyed doznes of vacated houses.
Commander A. Hadi Roofi of Bamyan examining an unexploded heavy bomb near his head querters.
The Mujahideen Monthly
35