s The Mujahideen, September, 1991
WSmwA

mPage 10
Fighting between Mujahideen and Kabul regime forces have been reported from different provinces of Afghanistan in which Mujahideen have claimed victories at different battle-fronts,
(^Prepared by: S. AnwarNas
August 7:
Army official rounded up:
Kabul: Fifteen Army officials rounded up for probe into the Taj Beg blasting incident.
The Kabul regime rounded up 15 high ranking army and Khad officials for interrogations to probe the Taj Beg ammunition dump blasts, reports AN A’s field correspondent in Kabul.
It may be mentioned here that the Mujahideen of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan had carried out the attacks at Taj Beg ammunition dumps and Oregan, Scud and Luna missile Launch-paths at Darul-Aman Kabul on July 31.
The Mujahideen sources claimed to have destroyed two ammunition dumps at Bibi Ghaib at Tappa-e-Taj Beg and Oregan, Scud and Luna missile stations at Darul Aman. Around 150 persons were killed in these blasts while 50 jigime tanks were destroyed besides other large scale material losses to the regime forces.
Shughnan District capture^.
Shughnan District in the North-Eastern Badakhshan province fell to Afghan Mujahideen after three days
different kinds from the militia barracks and captured 500 Klashinkovs and Pistols.
Three Mujahideen embraced
heavy fighting on August 5, Mujahideen commanders Shoora based in Peshawar while quoting wireless message of Mujahideen said that Mujahideen launched an attack under the joint-command of sayed Ali Khan (Hezb-i-Islami) and Basir Khalid (Jamiat-e-Islami) on the District on August 3.
About 66 regime militiamen were either killed or injured while 300 were caught alive by the Mujahideen forces. They recovered 24 cannons of
martyrdom while eight others sustained injuries. The Shughnan District is situated on the border of Soviet Union.
August 10:
Mujahideen’s affensive in Logar and Maidan
In Logar province Mujahideen launched a joint attack on regime security posts and destroyed three security posts.