The Mujahideen, September, 1991

lan l aqir Ahmai
Honey is a rich food and healing medicine. Even in yore times man was well aware of its good effects on health. In ancient Egypt there was a wide recognition of the benefits honey brought to human beings. The food that was believed to be procured to the Greek Gods ;was prepared from honey.
The renowned "Hakeem", doctor, in the bygone ages, Boqratus, had lived for 107 years. The reason for his longivity was said to be honey as his routine diet. The doctors and philosophers in Greece thought honey as a ready made elixir. Plutarc, a Roman historian, wrote that the English people lived up to the age 120 years because they used honey a lot. "Hakeen" Jalinoos writes about honey as a cure for many diseases. In the Christian old testament honey is mentioned 21 times. In the Holy Qura ’an too honey is described as 'Shifa, that heals. Centuries before, when soldiers were injured in wars, physicians administered old honey to them. In short from Hindus to Muslims all knew it as a very beneficial prescription for health. Allah Almighty has made it a thing envigorating and revitalizing. It is regretful that we spend too much on tea, coffee and cigarettes but ignore honey, a precious natural gift. Likewise we pay big sums for doctors’ and "Hakeem" fees but don’t pay a penny for honey while it promises deliverance from many diseases. There arc three kinds of bees. Queen, that lays eggs. Male bee who does mating with the queen and the worker that is short lived and has no sex. Its utility lies somewhere else. The great struggle of the worker bee can be judged from the fact that it brings every day nectar weighing 500 times its own
weight. To produce a spoonful honey the worker bee has to visit 2000 flowers. To get one pound honey the worker has to undertake 37,000 visits to flowers. One pound honey needs four pound flower nectar. If the distance between the hive and flowers is three miles, a worker bee has to travel a distance equal to four or five times around the world for making one pound honey.
Honey is of two kinds, one is white, crystal clear, thin and sweet. It is said to be the best kind of honey. The second kind is brownish and thick. It is usually used in medicine. The flavour and taste of honey always depend on the flowers sucked by bees. Honey is producccd twice in the year once in the spring and then in fall.
Honey is produced in many countries but the Miditeranean is the most famous. Hungary is the largest producer of honey. Apart from Hungary, Purtugal, Germany, France, Australia, North America, west Indies and Pakistan provide honey. In Pakistan Swat and Hazara produce most of the honey found in the country.
Honey contains water 17% and special sugar 75%. This is a particular kind of sugar that is more digestive and envigorating than common sugar. Besides these, it contains Iron, copper, calcium, Phosphorus, sodium, protein and vitamins etc.
Honey is very useful for health. It can be used in every weather and age. It is digestive and potent. It corrects stomach disorders and is a good applelizer. It is good for stomach diseases. It purifies blood. Itinduces deep sleep. It builds body and increases sexual capability. Honey brightens one’s complexion. It is good for diabetese, cough, cold, swelling, bronchites, and heart. It reduces fatness. In the winter you can have a spoonful of it with half glass warm water and in the summer with half glass cold water.