§The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991 §
\ Page 30
pollute their thoughts and create poisonous atmosphereof fllipancies. To think today that, by withdrawing what is
economic strangulation or bought over by promises of financial liquidity to recant tlleirearlier principled stand so as to end up joinning the band-wagon of American political castigation of, or military intervention in other nations.
This strategy of cajoling feable minded leaders into submission and manipulating general global opinion was first tried on Iran. It worked exceedingly. Later Baghdad became the next victim even if she was the greatest beneficiary when implemented on her neighbour. The next target of this international intimidation appears to be Afghanistan, and to be more explicit the so-called, fundamental militant parties among the Mujahideen.
Theoperation always starts first by repeatedly emptying tales of lies and falacious impossibilities into the heads of most policy makers. Then the process of isolation follows by a so-called popular consensus or strategic alliance as they want people to call it Later UNO is made to give the whole conspiracy a stamp of legality by passing loop-sided resolutions through the security council and finally America acts according to her own will and programmes but now finely concealed under false international backing and penal codes.
Such diplomacy could be effective in fighting an existing government that seeks recognition, trade and loans from the West and never against a zealous militant nation,that is still in its revolutionary days and advancing daily towards explicit goals. Even before the Western press blew the trumpet of Afghan crisis, the , revolutionized people themselves were on the verge of over-running the capital.
It was their faith in their LordMost High and determination never to be brutalize
or maginalize for ever by a despot----
be him local or foreign,----- that gave
them these initial victory. W^hat Western grants, propaganda and soyoalled anticommunist programmes did was infact not toadcelerate the already commenced and independent victorious march of the Mujahideen but to retard their progress.
essentialy a liability to the Mujahideen from them would suddenly help Western imperialistic machinations in the region, is so to say, the peak of self-mockery and collective deception. It is a fact that confirms the inability of most policy makers in Washington to abandon their old illusive hypotheses that Afghan Jihad can be derailed or defeated.
Logically, assuming the present
Western peace-initiatives survive-----
though very much unlikely — amidst the blowing thunderstorm of communist defeat on the battle field and Mujahideen advances at every day break, we may inquire here that which socio-political set up have these foreign intruders got that could stabilize the country. For one, "majority of Afghans share a common belief in Islam. All they are fighting for is an Islamic republic which must be an outcome of popular participation. An imposed electoral results by the UN or any other quarters would leave this lofty objective unfufilled, perpetuating thereby the bloody armed struggle against who ever replaces Najib.
Similarly, the military commandants, look upon themselves and their political leaders in Peshawar as strong factors in forcing both the West and its allies among the so-called Islamic states into negotiation. Would these
people-----that is the victorious Muslim
fighters,------ - fold their hands and
allow the American jfo plunge the whole nation into another bottomless valley of violence and disorder?
/ Assuming, the military commanders agree to co-operate with the Americans or the UN or with who ever poses as the spokesperson of Zionist imperialism—though very unlikely too —what would be the historical position and the ideological importance of the martyred Mujahideen in a new Afghanistan headed by another stooge of the imperialist? For which purpose then has the war continued for a decade and half starting from the first communist
bloody revolution in the country? What is going to be the stand of the out-lawed so-called Islamic fundamentalists, who still control a large followership among the citizenry?
From the above endless suppositions and well defined but perturbing inquiries, one could see vividly that America is living in a complex world of delusion that is far removed from reality. Those political leaders that are currently playing the role of servicing Western programmes, personally see no better alternatives than to look up to America fra survival. The reason is that most of than are mere political figures elevated by Western propaganda machine without broad and solid popular following among Afghans they are claiming to represent These Western made politicians, therefore see neither any role fra themselves nor their scanty groups of advisers if Afghan crisis is settled by unseating Najib by force.
Similarly, these brainwashed figures have no substantial military force of their own that could in the least partake in Mujahideen’s armed victory or at least protect themselves from possible armed reprisals from fellow country mot for dancing to American tune too openly and too long. Hence their anti-Military solution. Unfortunately fra the West, their reliance is still on these unpopular personalties anditmight be late to correct this anomaly.
If America feels that by dividing Afghans, they can rule them, this will amount to another fantasy. What they have forgotten is that every successful general revolution is a continuous process through which the society is totally purified from all relics of oppression. If the imperialist block is finding it difficult today to stop Islamic militant struggle in Afghanistan when the Mujahideen still do not control the official rein of authority, how would it ^ be possible to stop them tomorrow when K Allah would have awarded them total control over the country and by then those internal and external enemies must have been fully identified? •