Strip alone) and old men - but the intifadah continues Most ol these crimes have occurred in remote areas away from the glare of television lights, where, with evident delight, the Zionist have beaten up their victims.
Among those killed were a four-day-old infant. Suha
Muhammad Faha. from the AIFawar refugee camp near Hebron, who choked to death when Israeli soldiers sprayed toxic gas into her house on April 15. a 90-year-old woman - Suad Ahmad Yousef from the Az-Zaitoon quarter in Gaza who was clubbed to death on April 12, a 70-year-old woman, Wafa Farajallah, who	died from
poisonous gas inhalation in the Jabalia camp in Gaza, a 21-year-old - Huda Yousef Musallam of Salfit village - who was beaten up in Nablus while out buying medicine	and	42-year-old
Zahriyeh Isma il Al-Baba from Al Amar Camp near Ramallah who was savagely beaten up when Israeli soldiers broke into her home
The overwhelming majority of the victims have died of bullet wounds Some have even been shot to death after surrendering to the Zionists The case of 24 year-old Hussein Shahin from AlYamoun village near Jenin is typical On March 30. Shahin was grabbed by Zionist soldiers
and ordered to sit on the ground An Israeli officer then shot him through the head, killing him instantly On February 7, lyad Muhammad Aqel, 15, was taken from the Bureij camp in Gaza A few hours later his battered body, with skull crushed was found near the camp. 17 year-old Fuad Tarazi from the same camp faced a similar fate on February 9 Four youths from Kafr Salem near Nablus were dug out just in time to survive after Israeli soldiers buried them alive with a bulldozer on February 5
At least 7,000 Palestinians -perhaps twice that much - have had their limbs and fists broken by Israeli soldiers using clubs
(now reinforced with fibre glass because wooden clubs tended to break upon impact) and metal bars. Dr. Jennifer Leaning, a medical expert from Harvard (US), testified in February that the midshaft fractures which she found among the Palestinians during her visit to the area occur only when arms and legs are forcibly stretched out
However, these direct methods of repression have largely proved ineffective in breaking the people's spirit -rather they have fueled the uprising - so the Israelis have been forced to resort to other more indirect tactics. The Palestinians, despairing of the PLO, had decided to see if they could break Israel's hold on the occupied territories with a series of strikes and boycotts, as well as threatening collaborators; in short, by relying on their own resources.
Withholding of both labour and taxes play a key role in this original strategy. The Arabs have been reduced to hewers of wood and drawers of water in their	own country;	some
industries, notably construction and	services are	totally
dependent on Arab labour
Any boycott is a double edged sword, added to which the Israelis are stepping up the economic pressure. The Zionists have selected six or seven villages to make an example of them. One is Bait Umar in the West Bank. About 50	local farmers	were
summoned to the military governor's office in Hebron and advised that their licences to market their products had been withdrawn. The result is that bO percent of the fruit crop is now
Zionist forces daily exercise different ways of torturing in Palestine. It is rather part of their hobbies.
The Mujahideen Monthly
35
November 1988