
The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991
& Page 38
^wwwwwwwwvwwwimwwwwwww^^
THE RIGHTS TO DIVORCE

Islam gives women the right to sue for divorce if they are disallowed their conjugal rights. They are entitled like men to sue for the dissolution of marriage even without the permission of the law court or the consent of the husband. Still on the issue of divorce, women are given a kind of right and opportunity through a process known as delegated divorce. This implies the practise whereby the husband empowers women to make themselves free of marriage bond. There is also a right given to women whereby they can stipulate that if the husband do certain things contrary to the woman’s wish they can sue for divorce.
The door of divorce is not open for only mt?n but also women as well. In Islam the rights of women are so preserved that if a woman is to be divorced the husband has to first of all submit evidence before the judiciary, (where shariah is being practised). The judiciary will then assess his proves. If his proves and evidences are reliable he has a ground for divorce but if otherwise the couple will have to settle their disputes.
In addition to the provision of evidence ’ and proving of the reliability of the evidences, the husband is obliged to house the woman for a period of three months consecutively. If the wife is pregnant the period goes beyond that period and it continues till she delivers her burden. This waiting period is called the Iddah period in Islamic law. It is important to note here that the woman still has the right to be catered for as usuals, even if the man will not reconcile with |he woman again. To butress this the Qur'an*1 declares thus:-
“fit?r divorced women maintenance should be
provided by the husbands on a reasonable (scale). This is a duty on the righteous. Doth God make clear His signs to you: In order that ye may understand” 11
It is apparent from the above verses that a man is compelled by Allah (Swt) to cater for his divorced wife even if the divorce is initiated by the man yet the man has no legal right in Islam to expel the woman from his house during this waiting period. The women’s right to custody is as well guaranteed and she has the right to nurse her children. She also has the right to continue her occupation. If a woman is divorced after the consummation of the marriage, she still have the right to take her dowry or any deffered part of it. Concerning this afore mentioned rights the Holy Qur’an declares thus:-
“There is no blame on you if ye divorce women before consummation of the fixation of their dower but bestow on them (a suitable gift) the wealthy according to his means and the poor according to his means, a gift of a resonable amount is due from those who are prone to do the right thing." 12
“And if ye divorce them before consummation but after the fixation of dower for them. Then half of the dower (is due to them) unless they remit it 7>r the man’s half is remitted by him in whose hands is the marriage tie. And the remission of the man’s half is the nearest to righteousness. And do not forget goodness between yourselves for Allah sees well all that ye do" 13
In lieu of the above quotations it is then apparent that it is the woman’s right to be treated with kindness and equity even when the marriage bond or ties has bee(n dissolved..
To be continued
