Russian Army Base In Kunduz Heavily Damaged
Russian's second biggest military base in Afghanistan Dashti Abdan in the North-Eastern Province of Kunduz, has been heavily damaged with more than 3000 Russian casualties in an attack by Mujahideen of Hezb i-lslami Afghanistan.
Following the attack the Russian Supreme Command in Afghanistan ordered the arrest of 12 senior Russian officers who survived and sent them t the Soviet Union for court martial on charges of incompetence.
The successful attack was led by Commander Syed Hamidullah Billal who was provided with information by people who had access to the military base which is located 17 kilometres to the north of Kunduz city. Capital of Kunduz Province.
The information included the location of ammunition depots, underground fuel tankers, residential blocks and, most important of all, the distance of each of these targets frorh the point of attack.
The Mujahideen attacked the base in September with R—107 rockets and fired 55 of them. The shells hit key targets and the exploding ammunition and fuel resulted in an inferno and further explosions which wiped out 1 -
the camp.
The fire was so fierce and errup-ted so suddenly that the Russian troops did not get a chance to extinguish the flames or even to respond to the attack.
According to Commander Syed Hamidullah and his Mujahideen the scene was so horrific that Afghans ■living up to five and six kilometres away fled their villages and took • refuge in caves.
The Mujhideen said that Russian men ' and women / fan towards i. nearby villages to /try -to escape the attack and in one incident a group of 12 women-ran towards
another military base Pul-i-Alchin — three of them naked. The attack and subsequent inferno happened so quickly that they had not had time to dress.
Instead of running all the way to Pul-i-Alchin they ran into the house of an Afghan farmer, Ghulam Rasool, who was shocked at seeing them.
Ghulam Rasool was later accused of trying to hand the women
over to the Mujahideen and arrested by the Russians. His whereabouts are not known.
In another incident a woman, whose four year old daughter was killed by the Russians a few days before the attack, had a heart attack because she was so overjoyed to see the base blazing and exploding.
The Mujahideen said that about 50 residential blocks, fuel tankers, ammunition depots, one Ml—24 helicopter-gunship, one BM—13 rocket firer, about 130 tanks and army trucks and bullet making machines were destroyed. They said that about 3000 Russians were killed or wounded. The base was exploding and burning fiercely for 48 hours after the attack.
Russian Generals
Killed In Wardak
Several Russian Generals and the daughter of a Russian Marshal were killed near Maidan Shahar in Wardak Province in mid-October in an attack by Mujahideen on a convoy of more than 200 tanks and army, vehicles.
The attack followed information supplied to a senior commander of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan in the Maidan area, Major Amman-ullahj that a group of Russian Generals and the daughter of a Russian Marshal would be passing through his area on the way to Ghazni Province.
According to the information the group would be in a big armoured personnel carrier (APC) and was conducting a strategic survey
of Kabul, Wardak and Ghazni Provinces.
Major Ammanullah's Mujahideen took up a position in Takhmak, in the Maidan area, about 23 kilometres south-west of Kabul on the highway. On Oct. 14 he sighted the convoy, with a cover of four Ml—24 helicopter-gunships, and the next day Mujahideen planted six anti-tank electrified mines I inked to detonator off the highway ahead of the vehicles.
The convoy reached the area of the mines at about 10 a.m. Four tanks were immediately ahead of the APC. The Mujahideen let the tanks pass over the mines and when the APC reached them they detonated the explosives destroying the APC and two tanks.
The Mujahideen Monthly
i
31