On December 29 and 30 the Mujahideen were in full control of the Spin Ghar post and Battalion No. III. On the night of December 30/1st January fresh troops were brought by helicopters from
Commander 4. Ghafnor A bad'
Brigade No. 81 of Jalalabad. Then in the morning they atta eked the Mujahideen positions both from air and land. By the evening the government forces were retreated, while leaving several dead bodies_ One jet was shot down. One Mujahid N.adief Khan was martyred and three others were wounded*
On January 2nd the Mujal'm deen fired several surface-to-surface rockets on the Barikot Head-
quarters.—This was a formidable blow to the regime troops After two hours fresh troops were brought from Kabul by 21 Helicopters. On the other side of the Brigade the helicopters were hovering three metres above froro_the ground and the soldiers were jumping from them.
At this time one helicopter, was destroyed by a surface-to, surface rocket, when the soldiers were jumping from it. The pilot, co-pilot and 11 othei" soldiers near the copter were killed.
The Afghan soldiers landing were accompanied by a heavy bombardments of eight SU-24 on Mujahideen positions. The enemy also dropped several bombs on Arando, the border town of Pakistan.
Later at the evening the Mujahideen received news that two Russian advisors, three senior Afghan officers wer^ killed and seven others were wounded by the morning rockets firing when they were at a meeting.
During this seven-day fighting all ammunition depots of the Afghan army were blown up by the Mujahideen. Several buildings and barracks were destroyed at
Wreckage of MI-24-D helicopter carried by camel to Pakistan.
Commander M. Daoud Barikot A total of 13- Afghan army officers, two Russian advisors and about 200 soldiers were illed and almost the same number Of Afghan officers and soldiers wounded On the Mujahideen side eight were martyred and 39 woun-
Shaheed Maulvi Muhammad Karim
The Mujahideen also seized one 76mm cannon with 300 shells. One 14.5mm anti-aircraft gun with
50,000	rounds, four 82mm mortars with 2.800 shells, three heavy machineguns known as Garinov with 100,000 rounds, 100 kala-shinkovs with 400,000 rounds —50 magazine — 50 baynotes, 10 R— 105 wireless sets, eight telephone sets four binoculars, 1000 hand-grenades, important military maps of Kunar with army documents plus other logistic goods.
The Mujahideen Monthly
18
Jan - Feb 1987