gravity, from it, people are variegated in thoughts as much as in deeds. It all depends on what each understands to be his role on the globe and his priority in life. Allah the Exalted says:-
“By the night when it envelopes, and by the day when it permeates. Also (by) that (power) which has created the male andfemale. Certainly your strivings (O humanity) are diverse” (Al-Lail 92:1-4)
\
It is not what one professes that is so much paramount this time, beacuse many people do say many things many times. But what gives credence to, or pretext of, a doctrine is what follows in deed to prove or disprove any attestation. Allah the Sovereign says:-
t, October I November, 1991
to appraise every member of huma ideological balance we can see I asset to humanity. The last three i They represent global culprits iikthdfrlilfdlCAt ]
The only legal authority to be loved, obeyed and < has positivity through out. While airWggal bpdi^are those which, show negative attitude towards the universal change. What matters therefore is one’s position vis-a-vis Islamic Cosmic Transformation. It is not he whose actions contradict professed doctrine, who oppresses others and promotes corruption on earth — even though he bears a Muslim name and claims to be a believer that is an asset to humanity. A true asset to mankind is such a person that professes Islam, whose action confirms his sayings, understands revelation as well as creation and inspite of numerous odds and clogs, struggles
A man’s worth, from what we have seen, is measured in a community by his contribution to or disassociation from, Islamic Transformation. Legality or illegality of any group or any constituted authority depends on what it has as its goal, why it has chosen such an objective and finally, how does it conceptualize the best method in fulfilment of the goal. Now examining combinative mathematical probabilities and selecting only those realistic practical possibilities; We have:-
	(A) (WHAT)	(B) (WHY)
	Words & Actions	Divine & Mundane
	(Sincerity)	(Understanding)
i	Positive	Positive
ii	Positive	Negative
iii	Negative	Positive
iv	3 Negative	Negative
11		m
(C) (HOW)
Universal Islamic Change. (Jihad)
Positive
Negative
■ *
Negative
Negative
"But as for he who is niggardly and feels (himself) beyond needs. Also rejects Goodness soon too shall we pave for him (his) predicament. And his possessions' will benefit him not when he tumbles into perdition ” (Al-Lail 92:8-11)
i
This is the verdict of Allah the Supreme, the Sovereign. The condemned man here is an ingrate, who not only refuses to accept faith but is also useless and does not benefit humanity because of his miserliness, greed and inconsideration. Above these all, he feels him self bey pnd natural obligations by refusing to succumb to the universal concept of Islamic Goodness. He is therefore a man leading himself to perdition and his predicament is guaranteed solidly from his own ineptitude.	‘
d
/	*	‘	r*
V
Looking at the table on this page which is an attempt
with all he has, against the multiple forces of infidelity and tyranny, in liberating humanity from the sledge-hammer of Iqcal polytheism and razor-blade of continental despotism. We can thus conclude here that, many are tagged today as rebels but in reality, they are vanguards. Others are labelled as extremists, where as they are true fundamentalists. Some too are hailed as divine partriots, when in fact they are accursed traitors. Allah the Glorious has of course said:-
“And say, work(asye all please), for soon will Allah examine your actions , likewise His Apostle and the believing ones. And soon will you (too) be returned to the knower of the hidden and witnessed for he will (surely) inform you ofwhat you do”. At-Taobah (9): 105) ■