mind and heart of a single faithful Afghan patriot.
Such advice should have served as a pertinent warning to the Russians to review their suicidal strategy in Afghanistan. The country has already turned out to be a graveyard for Russian soldiers and a junkyard for their military hardware.
The Afghans have been the bearers of the torch of freedom in the region in the course of their 3000 year history and have never bowed down before tyrannical powers— Alhamdulillah the Russians are no exception.
In 1919 the Afghans threw off the yoke of the British Raj to become an independent state — the first nation in South Asia to cast off the British imperialists.
The Russians' ambitions apropos of establishing a world communist state in the long-term and gaining access to the warm water ports of the Indian Ocean are no longer secret and consequently all free nations should be on guard. It is obvious that the Russians' invasion of Afghanistan and the construction of bases close to the Indian Ocean are part of Moscow's long-term plans.
When we say effective support we never mean arms and soldiers. We attach more importance to moral support which could easily force the Russians to review their military presence in Afghanistan.
If the Muslim countries from whom we have high expectations would cut their political and commercial relations with Moscow until they withdraw from Afghanistan that would be the most effective way out of the present stalemate in the face of Russian intransigence.
This is because when the Russians were considereing invading Afghanistan they were afraid of a sharp reaction from Muslim nations. They thought the Muslim countries would pungently respond by severing all their relations with the Soviets. They considered the American response of wheat embargoes and the Olynr^pic boycott as trivial and transient.
It is rueful to see that the Muslim countries not only failed to break relations with the Kremlin and Kabul but some of them have been renewing their relations with the Soviets.
Ironically those countries which are accosting the Soviets for arms have huge oil revenues by virtue of which they can purchase far better arms in the free market.
The rapproachement of these Muslim countries with the USSR bears out that these countries are heading for the same destiny as that of the hapless Afghans.
Another area in which the Islamic countries do not live up to our expectations is their apathy to the slaughter of their Muslim brothers and sisters in Afghanistan.
. ■ -f*	'
They do not even bother to visit Afghanistan and see for themselves the Soviets' crimes and then convey the truth to the unwary people of the world.
We have rarely seen journalists from the Muslim countries who have taken the trouble to come to Afghanistan and debunk the Russians' claims of peace and progress.
We are of the opinion that the more we expose the Russians' atrocities the more presssure there will be on Moscow's dictators to withdraw their plundering troops.
We think it is a contradiction for those Muslim countries to say on the one hand that they are sympathetic to the downtrodden Afghan nation yet on the other hand maintain defacto relations with the Karmal regime, not to speak of full diplomatic relations with the Moscow.
We appeal to the conscience of the Muslim countries in particular and of the Free World at large not to allow the Russian occupying forces in Afghanistan succeed.
If they do it will mean the realisation of the Kremlin's global designs, the establishment of a world communist state in which no nation will ever be able to challenge the Russians' wanton aggression and expansionism.
Therefore it is incumbent upon all Muslims of the world to consider the Afghan Jihad as their own and render assistance in the rescue of Afghanistan from the mouth of the world communist ghoul.
The Mujahideen Monthly
9