Over all religion.
Even though the Pagans May detest (it).	(Saff, 8 - 9)
Political Negotiation
The political negotiations taking place now, or due to take place, involving parties that are not directly involved in the conflict will have no bearing on the final solution.
Moscow, though expressing its wil/igness to• withdraw from Afghanistan, is not an honest negotiator as can be seen from its demands for guarantees of non-interference. Further proof of this is that there is no evidence to prove that the Russian troops will leave Afghanistan in the near future.
On the contrary, Moscow appears to be trying to dig in by establishing new airforce bases, increasing the number of its troops and launching wild military offensives.
One of the Kremlin's ploys is to persistently attribute the conflict to the Government of Pakistan and Iran to try to compel them to negotiate with the puppet regime in Kabul imposed on our people by force. Alhamdulillah, both Governments have failed to fall for this trap and have been loyal to their brothers in Islam and refused to negotiate directly with Kabul.
Despite Moscow's attempts to embroil other regional governments in the conflict the reality is there are only tbvo adversaries in Afghanistan today — the Russian troops and the Afghan Mujahideen.
The Russians, with low morale and no real objective are fighiting reluctantly, while the Mujahideen with high morale are continuing their just struggle for the sake of Islam.
It is obvious that any negotiations which do not include representatives of one of the main parties to the dispute are meaningless -* as such any resolution passed by parties that do not include the Mujahideen will not be acceptable to Hezb-i-lslami.
Invasion A Catastrophe
The Russian invasion is not only a catastrophe for the people of Afghanistan but also for the whole region and has endangered the peace and stability of not just South Asia but also the world.
The presence of more than 230,000 Soviet troops on A fghanistan soil is of the deepest concern to Pakistan, Iran and China■/ The soviet installed regime in Kabul and the KGBf *arej together running subversive activities ih Pakistan and are trying to provoke its tribal people against the Afghan refugees and the » Government of Pakistan. / '
The Mujahideen Monthly
Moscow's invasion of Afghanistan has intensified India's hostility to Pakistan and Delhi has not only avoided condemning the invasion but also supported the Soviets in an effort to undermine Islamabad's security.
This will obviously have a bad effect upon future relations between the present Government of India and the A fghan people.
Since the early days of the Bolsheviks take over the communists have been spreading their profane creed and since the Second World War their attempts to enforce that creed upon others has intensified as nation after nation has fallen victim to their aggression.
It is obvious that the invasion of Afghanistan is a disaster not just for us but others as well — after Afghanistan who will be Moscow's next victim?
As Muslims we believe that Allah (AH Glory be to Him) orders us to fight for Him when we are called upon to do so Jihad has been declared in Afghanistan and now we are in the position so well known to those who believe — the position David (May Allah's peace be upon him) found himself in when Allah (AH Glory be to Him) brought him face to face with Go Hath.
But surely Allah (AH Glory be to Him) tells the story best of all - • 1st let me pick up the quotation from Surah 2, Baqara, of the Holy Quran that was begun earlier :
God is with those Who steadfastly persevere.
When they advanced
To meet Goliath and his forces,
They prayed : "Opr Lord !
Pour oui constancy on us And make our steps firm :
Help us against those . • That reject faith."
By God's will.
They routed them ;
And David slew Goliath ;
And God gave him Power and wisdom And taught him Whatever (else) He willed.
And did not God Check one set of people By means of another.
The earth would indeed
Be full of mischief:	‘
But God is full of bounty
To all the worlds. (Baqara, part 249, 250-1)
1