Pakistani Parliamentarians Meet Afghan Leaders
The leaders of the Afghan Mujahideen, Eng. Gulbudin Hekmatyar, the Amir of Hez-i-lslami Afghanistan, and Prof, tiurhanuddin Rabani, the Amir of the Jamiat-i-lslami Afghanistan, have met MNAs and Senators from the Pakistan Government, including Haji Saifullah, Mr. Zafarullah Jamali, Mr. Hamza, Mr. Qazi Abdul Latif, Senator Qazi Hussain Ahmad, Prof. Khursheed Ahmad, Nawabzada Jahangir Shah, Mr. Javed Hashimi and Sayed Assad Gillani.
They expounded on the overall situation of the Afghan Mujahideen and Afghan refugees and answered the legislators questions.
' Following are excerpts from this
cordial meeting:
TheMujahideen leaders thanked the MNAs and Senators for their sympathy with the Mujahideen and the Afghan refugees and said they were equally concerned with the security and territorial integrity of Pakistan. They expressed their ideb-tedness and thanks to the people and Government of Pakistan for their acceptance of more than three million refugees on their soil in the most difficult time of their lives.
They said that the Mujahideen were not only fighting for the liberation of their country and the establishment of an Islamic state, but also for the emanicipation of the Islamic Ummah at large from'the yoke of world imperialism. Therefore, it was incumbent upon all Muslims to render their Islamic reponsibilities towards the Jihad in Afghanistan.
They believed that the Russian invasion of Afghanistan was a well-calculated strategy designed to get access to the Indian Ocean and the Persian Gulf. "Some people con-
tend that the Russians' violations of Pakistani airspace is for the hot-pursuit of the Mujahideen and the refugees", they said. They posed the question:	Whom	did	the
Russians pursue when they sent 85,000 troops in Dec. 1979 into Afghanistan?
ON BOMB EXPLOSIONS IN PAKISTAN
They said that the Russians by a series of explosions were trying desparately to create an at-mospere of hatered and animosity between the refugees and their Pakistani brothers. They denounced such Russian intrigues and said as far as the Mujahideen were concerned they would not allow this plot to pay off.They further pointed out that the Russians were hiring and training Pakistani nationals and then sending them back to Pakistan for subversion and sabotage.
They - said that the refugees were the guests of the Pakistani nation and that they were not guest$ of a particular party or indviduals. They contended that as Pakistan was the only sanctuary for the uprooted Afghans, therefore, they were logically interested
in its security. They declared that they had never wished to be involved t in the internal politics of Pakistan and would continue to refrain from any involvement in the future.
They condemned the American veto of the UN security council resolution with regards to the sacrilege of the Al-Aqsa Mosque by th^ Zionists and said it had appalled all Muslims in the world.
ON A GOVERNMENT-IN-EXILE
They said although this matter had come under consideration in the supreme council of the Mujahideen, no final decision had been made. However, there were some members of the council who
advocated the formation of such a government inside Afghanistan provided the Mujahideen could get an air defene system to defend the liberated areas. They said the alliance was a substitute for a government in exile.
20
The Mujahideen Monthly