By Dr. F. Kakar
ONE EYE ON THE GROUND AND ANOTHER ON THE SKY
The call of Allahu Akbar rose from several mountain peaks around	us. Amidst the
reverberations of these calls the mountains shook as the powerful	antiaircraft Zikoyak
cannon-like guns fired grom the peaks where the calls had' originated Red tracer bullets fired by men located somewhere below the Zikoyak positions crossed each other's paths in the sky. A group of men shouted "Zenda	bad Mujahideen-i-
Afghanistan” ("Long live the Afghan	Mujahideen") and
"Zendabad Hekmatyar" ("Long live Hekmatyar"). We had arrived at the Mujahideen strongholld of Espast in the Logar province at night and all the fire works were to welcome Br. Hekmatyar, the Ameer of Hezb-i-lslami of Afghanistan (HIA) whom we accompanied. The base, belonged to the members of the Harakat-i-lnqilab	Islami-i-
Afghanistan (HIIA) party, led by Maulavi	Mohammad	Nabi
Mohammadi. The warm and magnificent welcome which Br. Hekmatyar received was a clear gesture on the part of the HIIA Mujahideen signifying	their
support	for the Unity	of the
Afghan	Mujahideen.	The
Mujahideen at the base were ecstatic that a national leader had come to their base to spend a night with them. We were then taken to a mountainside cavelike
room heavily fortified. As we sat and	began	to	discuss	the
Mujahideen operations in Logar, a Mujahid guard from a hilltop shouted "Extinguish to lights!". Immediately all aladdin lamps went dark, and the roar of Soviet jets	above	the	base	drew
everyone's attention. In a minute or two the planes had gone and the aladdin lamps were lit again. We	were	later	told	that
extinguishing lights at night has
been a routine security precaution practiced by the Mujahideen to avoid Soviet bombardment.	Soviets
apparently drop bombs at night when they locate a light in the areas held by the Mujahideen. At night the planes fly lower and thus can hit their targets more accurately than during the day when they have to fly at higher altitudes to avoid being hit by the anti aircraft missiles of the
The Mujahideen Monthly
39
November 1988