declared that this was untenable in view of the fact that there had been hints of a possible bloody coup in Cairo with the strong possibility that the next leadership to emerge from this expected military mutiny would immediately renounce all Egyptian obligations and commitments towards the Camp David Accord, and the entire country would be only too happy to support such a government since the streets of Middle East capitals have already expressed their full hatred and rancor towards the Accord.
Geonaversh also informed the audience about intelligence reports which pointed to the fact that the
relationship between Iran and Iraq was progressing and the prospect of the two Muslim and neighboring countries entering into a formidable treaty was very near. Considering the fact that the foundation of such an anti-Zionist agreement has already been made; one could correctly conclude that hostility could break out anytime in the region. As an indication of this claim, he cited the recent (pre-Gulf crisis) declaration of Saddam Hussain which stated that Iraq was prepared to open its borders for the Iranian Army to cross and attack Israel. This is what both countries constantly referred to as “Liberation of Jerusalem”. Saddam Hussain himself has repeatedly said that in fulfilling this Islamic objective he was prepared to bum out as much as half of present-day Israeli territory.
The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991 1
For the speaker, the solution was simply to take the Iraqi leadership seriously since some of his devastating missiles were already deployed facing Israel waiting only an order from Baghdad to be fired. This, unfortunately, resembled very much the late thirties and early forties threats of Adolf Hitler which were eventually carried out with all its attendant ruthlessness to the letter. To stop Saddam from becoming another Hitler, he suggested that it was necessary for the American government and pro-Zionist forces the world over to think of a way of enforcing economic sanctions on Iraq as well as a political boycott of Baghdad and all other
sympathetic Muslim states with Iraq. This alone, he submitted, would not only benef t Israel indirectly but would also directly guarantee its security in the Zone.
A1990 press release by ABAC highlighted the operation strategy of the organization. The following fundamental points should be mentioned:
“The only American policy likely to succeed in the Middle East is that which is based on strengthening the existing American-Israeli relationship from all areas. These include commercial, financial, economic, political and diplomatic co-operation in seeking a permanent peace in the region.”
The role of the ABAC in this
Page
respect, according to this press release, is very important in serving as a liason between the two nations as well as extensively promoting the avowed aims of the two countries. The priorities of (ABVAC) in the year 1990 therefore would be:
One: Strengthening the current efforts towards a realistic peace between Israel and its neighboring Arab states. This could be performed by America gearing up its support for on-going Israeli attempts of carrying out free democratic elections for Palestinians residing in Jordan, Sumarah, and Gaza. This would without doubt pave the way for the emergence of a new group of Arab leadership that could be invited to join the present dialogue on peace initiatives.
Two:	ABAC	should work
intimately with the American government as well as the Congress in securing necessary aid and grants for Israel. Funds and assistance are no doubt necessary in assimilating and re-settling Jewish historical emigrants from the Soviet Union. There is need for international co-operation to eliminate existing impediments which bar Jewish immigration from Ethiopia, Syria, Yemen and other parts of the world where they are persecuted.
Three: Activities must also be directed towards preserving the economic and military assistance of America towards Israel.
Four:	Strengthening	of
strategic	“American-Israeli
cooperation”, especially against the persistent threat of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons possessed by some neighboring hostile states in the region.
Five: Supporting the efforts to transfer the American embassy from Tel-Aviv to Jerusalem and guaranteeing the security of this city as the eternal capital of the Jewish state which would be free, united and open to all religions.
Six:	Encouraging	the Jews
presently serving today as American officials