The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
by the HI A against the Afghan un-Islamic regimes, and conflicts with the Communists on ideological and armed basis was initiated by theHI A committed members. If a coalition government were acceptable to theHI A, it should have been formed with Najib.
Friends could have objected if the HI A had either formed a government with an un-Islamic party or had accepted acouncil consisting of Communists. Yet neither a coalition council nor any coalition government has been formed.
HIA’s position in this regard has been clear that after the fall of the Gen. Najib government a council comprised of “impartial officers” and “Mujahideen commanders operating around Kabul” would run government affairs for six months, and then the power should be transferred to an elected Islamic government.
Why are these friends without any inquiry and research, but justrelying on envious elements’ allegations, making accusations against the HI A and instilling doubts and suspicions into people’s minds regarding HIA’s just and Islamic position.
Have they forgotten this clear Qur’anic injunction which says:
“O ye who believe !
If a wicked person comes To you with any news. Ascertain the truth, lest Ye harm people unwittingly, And afterwards become Full of repentance for What ye have done.” (Al-Hujarat - 6)
Or that which the Qur'an says:
“Why did not the Believers — Men and women —when ye Heard of the affair,—put The best construction on it In their own minds And say, “This (charge)
Is an obvious lie?”
(An-Nur-12)
HIA is making it clear once more that:
Page 14
1-	It will not participate in any coalition government,
2-	It will never be satisfied by anything less than an elected Islamic government,
3-	It will never tolerate even the mere existence of un-Islamic parties in Afghanistan,
4-	It will never allow un-Islamic activities to be carried out in Afghanistan,
5-	It will continue Jihad until an entirely Islamic government is established by Afghan committed Mujahideen.
It is surprising that our friends are making propaganda against HIA in a situation where the HIA has become a target of al 1 the plots and conspiracies of the enemies of Islam. Russia and the U. S. are m aki ng propaganda against HI A on such a scale that one is liable to make the presumption that there is no Jihad organization in Afghanistan except the HIA.
The enemies believe that as long as HIA has not been smashed, they will not be able to prevent the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan nor irppose a government of their own choice on our nation. They consider the HIA to be a great danger and the main obstacle in their way, and, for its isolation,
defamation and crushing, they have joined hands with each other.
We advise our envious rivals to put aside the envy and not to oppose other’s good acts because of their own envy, and if they are fond of competition they should compete with their adversaries in “all that is good.”
And we expect the friends of our Jihad to abandon creating and widening cleavages among the Mujahideen by bigotry, biases, ill-considered opinions and jumping to conclusions. Our friends should not be influenced by the propaganda of the malicious elements. We expect them to, for the sake of Allah Almighty, judge the attitudes and positions of the Afghan Jihad organizations in the light of their Iman (faith) and thorough inquiry. This will be helpful in avoiding the influence of propaganda, which may result in creating confusions and suspicions among the Ummah, a consequence of which will be to discredit the Mujahideen, may Allah forbid it.
“For us Allah sufficeth.
And He is the best Disposer of affairs,
The Best to protect.
And the Best to help.