The Mujahideen, September, 1991	Wmmmmmmmmmm Page 17

Hekmatyar Says
Ouster of Najib Regime, Only Solution
Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar, Amir of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan has said that the days of Kabul regime are numbered and the regime is in a state of confusion.
Taking to Afghan New Agency on wireless set from Logar, he said that no one guarantee the survival of Najib regime. There is no other way for the solution of Afghan problem except the ouster of Najib regime and that should be done at the handsof Mujahideen,he added.
The most popular Afghan leader made it clear that there is no room for any kind of dialogue or entering into coalitition regime with Najib. There is also no chance of any compromise with Najib on future of Afghanistan, he strssed.
Eng ineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar said that he is passionately waiting for the replacement of Najib regime at the hands of Mujahideen.
As for as Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan is concerned. Jihad would continue till the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, he added.
Explaining the policy of HIA, he said that we want the replacement of the Kabul regime by an interim government. The interim government should be entrusted with the task of holding elections and transferring power to an elected government of the Afghan masses, he added.
Engineer Hekmatyar further said that whoever removed Najib regime, that should he followed by establishment of an interim regime. If HI A succeeded in toppling the Kabul regime all alone, even then we would announce establishment of an interim government, he assured.
The Amir of HIA said that those people who are worried at the prospects of
the toppling of Najib regime at the hands of Mujahideen, are infact, interested in keeping the Najib regime infact.
He said that HIA would foil the conspiracies of anti-Islamic forces. Engineer Hekmatyar further said that some western powers along with some other weak elements in Afghan society, enjoying foreign patron age, are worried at the prospects of the toppling of the Najib regime at the hands of
Mujahideen. We do not want to waste our time by engaging ourselves with such west sponsoved elements, rather we would stand against their masters.
About the rumorus of the expected coup-de-etat in kabul he said that when such an eventuality happened. We would make our stand public, HIA always makes its policy clear on all issues.
He, however, said that our stand is quite clear that the present regime has to go; we could not be satisfied with anything less then it. Afghan nation should be provided an opportunity to elect an Islamic government of their own and hand over power to those who enjoy their confidence.
Engineer Hekmatyar made it clear that Afghan nation would never accept any foreign sponsored or imposed government in Afghanistan, whether they control a village, a province or the whole state. HIA would fight against such imposed regimes and would
stand by the oppressed masses in all circumstances.
Responding to a question, the HIA Amir said that some elements have no role in Afghanistan; neither positive nor negative; They are left with only one job i.e issuing statments to the newspapers and going interviews to the BBC.
Engineer Hekmatyar advised such elements to remain in their limits. They should eat as much as they could swallow, he said. Such elements are neither able to play a role to bring about some change. Nor they could blocks the coming change. However, if they are capable of doing anything, they should come back to Afghanistan and fight against Najib regime.
Engineer Hekmatyar said that HIA is interested in combined attacks of Mujahideen on Kabul, followed by formation of a collective interim government. HIA is not interested in hatching conspiracies or coup-d-etat to take overpower. HIA, he said, would also not allow other elements to grab power through illegal means. He said, HIA would never support, or take part in any such activity which does not result in the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
Engineer Hekmatyar further said that HIA is in touch with a good number of Afghan organization and Mujahideen commanders and they have agreed with us on a joint attacks on Kabul. Only some paper parties in Peshawar are issuing false statement to Pakistan; newspaper and are opposing joint attacks of Mujahideen.
He, however, expressed his confidence in Afghan masses, who could not be deceived by false propaganda. Afghan peoplenow judge leaders and their parties by their actions and characters. Afghan people have rejected all such foreign sponsored leaders and organizations who are derious of finding some solution of the Afghan problem through the dictates of soviet Union and America.