The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991
Maulana Abdul Salam
Afterworld war II, two powers emerged on world scene: USA and USSR. All other countries flocked around US and Russia which made two blocs namely the American and the Russian blocs. There was and still is a so-called bloc of the non Aligned movement (NAM). In reality there is no non aligned country in the world as the countries comprising that movement are attached to one bloc or the other. This was the real political map until recently when all changed. Because of its economic difficulties inside and its
outside military adventures as in Afghanistan compelled Russia to abandon its superpower status thus making its major adversary America the sole superpower in the world. The recent Iraq-Allied conflict attested this fact. Russia did nothing more than consenting to what America willed in the Persian Gulf. The Russian humiliation did not end here. Now it has assumed the status ofaborrowingnation.lt demands economic aid from the West of which
America is the leader.
It is evident that the West will lend Russia only on its own preconditions. It is bound to circumscribe its power more. America* in the given conditions, has risen as the only super power in the world. We have an eye on the conduct of America also. We should see what it intends to do in the world. To survey the prospects we have the case study of the Gulf crisis. Iraq has been destroyed for its crime of attacking and capturing the sovereign state of Kuwait. It is being disarmed to save the world from its atrocities. Justice demands equal treatment. If Iraq is aggressor, Israel is
the greatest aggressor and grabber of foreign land. But in place of punishing Israel it is being armed and made strong as a terrorist state. It can capture Palestine, attack Lebnon, Jordan, Syria and even Uganda without any fear of preventing it, what to speak ofpunishing. Likewise Pakistan is discriminated against India on the question of nuclear capability. India exploded its nuclear bombin 1974 but America ignored. But it is the Muslim Pakistan that is punished
for its supposed nuclear capability . When Iran defied America it was destroyed through Iraq. Iraq too faced the same fate as these are the facts on the ground. One finds it difficult to understand what the American proposed new would order would be like.
It is crystal clear this order is not going to be based on equality. What is right for one is wrong for the other. So who is to be deceived? Before the world wars I and II Britain was a great power. What order it had? To capture and grab the resources of the weaker nations. So does America. Its foundation has been laid in the Middle East It has taken the Arab oil in its control. On the other hand it has started to build its bases in the Gulf countries, oil trade will be at the disposal of the US. Any country going against the American will will face the consequences. Now America is world writ large. As it is what is to be done to save the nations of the world? A seemingly stratagem suggests the assemblage of Europe, Japan, Russia, China, and the nations of West Asia as a group against a possible US action against the interest of the nations mentioned here. It is unthinkable that the supremacy America has gained will not be used to further its own influence. It will do this at the cost of the others. The nations of the world must take some precautionary measures to ward off the menace.
The Islamic countries are duty bound to think over the matter seriously. They are the direct target o f i mperial ism. They must get together to avoid the worst. Their inter-state relations be fashioned on the patten of a solid group as their interests are common they must help one another economically and politically. This will not be practical without sinking their internal differences. If they come together it will be difficult for any one to hit them.