The Mujahideen , April/may, 1990
The continued reluctance of India to implement the resolutions of the United Nations for the holding of a plebiscite in Kashmir and the ruthless persecution of the Muslims of Kashmir by the Indian occupation forces led the Muslims to rise once again against Indian imperialism. Thus war broke out between the two countries in September 1965. However, the Security Council intervened, and through its resolution of 20th September 1965, brought into effect a cease-fire between the two countries’ armed forces.
Simla Agreement
Pakistan signed the Simla Agreement with India in 1972 which clearly recognized that the Kashmir dispute must be resolved in accordance with the charter of the United Nations. One point to be kept in mind is that there is nothing in the Simla Agreement by which either Pakistan has given up its rights under the UN Security Council resolutions on Kashmir or agreed to leave Kashmir to India’s mercy. India, however, refused not only to enter into bilateral negotiations with Pakistan for the settlement of this longstanding issue, but also unilaterally violated the Simla Agreement by committing armed aggression in the Siachin area which had been under the effective control of Pakistan since the cease-fire of 1st January 1949.
Nations.
The Hindu extremists, on the other hand are committed to have Article of 370 of the Indian Constitution, which gives Kashmir special status, abrogated. After the abrogation of Article 370, the avowed plan is to change the demographic character of Kashmir by turning the Muslim majority in Kashmir into a minority. The struggle of Muslims in Kashmir is thus a revolt against these Hindu extremists who have made their intentions clear to exterminate Muslims from India.
In spite of all international agreements.India would still like to deny the Muslims the right to their own homeland and insists that all of Kashmir is within India’s legal boundaries. Furthermore, the illegal occupation of Kashmir continues to satisfy India’s desire to cripple the economy of Pakistan and to militarily dominate the whole region. The ninety-five percent Muslim population of the Indian held Kashmir is now out on the streets to challenge the might of the Indian army in what is
The Present Day
The present Jihad in Kashmir against Indian occupation is entirely a spontaneous and indigenous movement, without the support or backing of any foreign power. They clearly want the Indian occupation forces to be withdrawn from their state and a plebiscite held under the auspices of the United
The relentless struggle of the Afghan Mujahideen against an aggressor and oppressor encouraged other oppressed and subjugated nations of the world to fight for their just and legal cause. The impact of the Afghan Jihad on other subjugated nations is widespread. The Muslims of every comer of the world e.g. Azerbaijan, Kashmir, etc, are waging the struggle of liberation.
The Kashmir problem can be seen in the context of the current global movement for liberation. Now it is evident to the Muslims of Kashmir that if a superpower can face failure in its nefarious designs, then the defeat of India should be even easier. Since 1947, Kashmir remained a bone of contention between India and Pakistan, but now is the first time that Kashmiris by themselves have had the vision in such a relentless way.
The lesson from Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, and Kashmir is that neither Socialism nor Secularism nor any other creed can satisfy the Muslims. Their natural destiny lies in their lives according to the teaching of the Holy Qur'an and the Sunnah of the lastprophet Muhammad (pbuh). Their aspirations can be subdued for sometime but cannot be eroded for all times.
In both Azerbaijan and Kashmir, the uprising is quite indigenous. Both the Russia and India accuse Iran and Pakistan, respectively, of interference, but without any material proof. This bears a message for all the oppressed nations of the world, that a mouse can roar before an elephant
People in Pakistan showing supportfor the Kashmiri Mujahideen
regarded as a “do or die” mission.
Effects of the Afghan Jihad
The moral support of 1 the entire Muslim population of the world should be extended to the cause of the Azeris and Kashmiris in order to help them in the realization of their goal.
Page 33