The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991
mmmmmPage08 mmmmi
TOWARDS
GARDEZ
i
(AbuAbudullah
The military battle for the removal of another major vestige of oppression in Afghanistan seemed to have commenced. As there is political pandemonium on unpragmatic peace-initiatives in Peshawar, fierce fighting is on in Afghanistan in what could be called a defiant demonstration by the military commanders on the great possibility of removing the Marxist puppet regime in Kabul through armed conflict
TheMujahideen are again proving that they are capable of removing the Marxist regime in-Kabul through revolutionary armed *	struggle
)
What the poineers and abetters of the so-cal led roundtable conference where-in Mujahideen would be invited to sit and talk peace-terms with theenemy should understand, is that, such a programme seems to be about a decade late, hence doomed to fail ever before commencing.
The intention here is not to deny the possibility of pressurizing some Afghan political leaders into accepting negotiation of peace with Kabul nor the improbability of the UN to pass resolutions under Washington’s manipulation that would force a permanent peace-fire and not cease-fire as its was in the last Gulf crisis. These options are possible. Our own contention is simply based on the attainability of a lasting new socio-political structure in Afghanistan without prior and complete obliteration of communism as well as other relics of foreign imperialism in the country.
As if to make things worse, the advocates of quadruple delegations to different capitals in the World in winning a nonexisting concessions, are busy fighting amongst themselves on who should lead which group. Ironically all parties concerned have apparently agreed to remain divided as long as no one is prepared to step down or drop the whole fabulous project. The matter remains unfinshed since no agreement could be formed among them.
But Afghan crisis did not originate from Pakistan or Iran, and therefore cannot end there. Nor are their Mujahideen's military bases in USSR or America. The people who drove away ex-king Zahir Shah were Afghans and those who invited the Red Army and now enjoy massive Western support are ’Afghans. The struggle since inception has been confined to the geographical boundary of Afghanistan. If there is going to be any solution, so to say, it has to be settled inside the country by the people themselves and not from outside nor under foreign pressure.
This is why Gardez is not only an armed and revolutionary conflict against a heavily defended strategic provincial capital of Paktia but also a political reward that has a mammoth advantage for any onewho finally controls the city.
f
Since last Ramadhan, when the overblown Western theory of military stalemate was shattered by the successful liberation of Khost, Kabul regime has been finding it difficult to come to grips with the nightmare of Mujahideen overruning
i