whole world to be grey. But your wishes will not materialize Whatever slogans you may use in order to march forward into a ‘bright future', you will ot be able to advance.
What about my little letter, will you publish it, huh? There is openness' after all. It may be a crooked one, but, nevertheless.. as everybody is now supposed to be able to talk about everything, I too, therefore, want to put in my bit, being a Soviet', even if a former one. If you want
it, you can publish it under a heading such as: 'He sold his country for dollars and jeans!' huh?
But with such a heading it still doesn't add up. I do not have a penny to rub together and instead of jeans I am wearing baggy trousers and a long shirt, and this leter does not come from the Hilton
Misunderstandings, misundesandings. . By the way,
all your theories and practices for the last 70 years are complete misunderstandings. And today, while putting on new clothes, you have forgotten to remove the old clothes and wash yourself. And this is unhealthy, the smell, excuse me, is revolting
And so the story continues...
Vladimir Ramchuk
By Dr. Faizullah Kakar
RESEARCH AND ADVISORY COUNCIL PROPOSAL
INTRODUCTION
The heroic sacrifices of the Afghan Mujahideen during the last nine years to defend Islam and to liberate Afghanistan from the Soviet claw, the admirable hospitality of Pakistan provided to the Afghan	refugees	and
Mujahideen, and the continued	assistance	and
political	backing	from
supporters of the Afghan Jihad have brought Afghanistan and Islam into sharp international focus	and	have
internationalized the once regional Afghan issue.
The Jihad has influenced East-West detente and has also Influenced relations between the Soviet block countries and the majority of the Muslim peoples. These international effects of the Afghan Jihbad, together with the spectacular victory of the
Mujahideen in convincing a superpower army to retreat, have crystallized a new international image for the Muslim nation of Afghanistan.
In Afghanistan itself, the decade-long Jihad has produced considerable socioreligious changes such that ideological relations between Afghans have become stronger and tribal affiliations have become weaker Tremendous awareness of Islam as a whole way of both social and political life has permeated virtually every segment of Afghan society.
These important changes in the international image of Afghanistan, its potential impact on future international issues, and the internal socio-religious changes that have occurred and are still in evolution, dictate a new political order for Afghanistan. Such a new
political order will have to be based on the principles of Islam since the historic changes in Afghanistan have had a fundamental influence on the Islamization of values and characters of the people.
Now that the Soviets are leaving Afghanistan and the Mujahideen government is about to control the whole of Afghanistan, a new phase of Jihad will emerge. The greatest challenges facing the Mujahideen in this upcoming phase will be to unite the nation and begin reconstruction and rehabilitation of the country and its people. Similarly, as the Afghanistan begin to clear the estimate five million Soviet land mines in Afghanistan, they will most likely face in the international arena a more ubiquitous and more difficult to defuse multitude of mines. The latter challenges are expected
The Mujahideen Monthly
32
November 1988