Formation of the Shoora and the IIGA
As the Soviet troops withdrew from Afghanistan, about 500 representatives of the Mujahideen from all parts of the country and from all walks of life came to the Islamabad Haji Camp and Conference Center to form a Shoora Council with the purpose of
Afghanistan (IIGA) was elected by the Shoora Council.
The OIC Chair
March 8 to March 22, Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar as the new foreign minister of the IIGA led a delegation to the meeting of foreign ministers of the Organization of Islamic
greeting the Foreign Minister of the IIGA Eng.
G. Hekmatyar.
A view of the leader of various political parties during the meeting of consultative council.
electing a united government of Afghanistan.
Meeting from February 10 to 24, the Shoora Council included clerics, commanders, chiefs, professors, engineers, judges, educated and illiterate, urban and rural, Sunni and Shia, representatives from every province and every major city. Refugees came from many countries abroad and commanders came from the Jihad front. The votes were cast by secret ballot without threat of violence and the outcome was accepted by all participating in the Shoora and those they represented.
On February 23, 1989, the Islamic Interim Government of
Conferences in Riyadh. The Muslim countries, having been impressed by the courage and sacrifices of the Mujahideen in the battlefield for many years and then by the political wisdom they demonstrated in forming a Shoora-based government, bestowed upon the IIGA the vacant Afghan seat. The granting of the seat to IIGA, in effect, was a collective recognition of the IIGA by the 45 member OIC countries. In addition three countries, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, and Bahrain, individually declared their recognition.
The Far East Trip
Realizing that further recognition of the IIGA would speed up the process
of peace in Afghanistan, the Foreign Ministry of the IIGA decided to undertake a series of trips and activities toward this end. a delegation led by
Engineer Hekmatyar, Foreign Minister of the IIGA, visited Bangladesh, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, Brunai, the Peoples' Republic of China, and Australia from April 8 to April 21. Malaysia recognized the IIGA soon after their visit.
Summer Jihad
During the spring and summer months Eng. G. Hekmatyar made several tours of the Jihad fronts inside Afghanistan. He was monitored so closely by the PDPA that, on his tour to
18
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990