against you, but begin not hostilities. Lo! Allah loveth not aggressors."	(Baqara,	190)
Amusing as it may be to people who do not believe in God, particularly those in the Kremlin, there are some, like us, who do believe — and who have not forgotten that Allah (All Glory be to Him) does not support the corrupt and the unjust.
We remember His words "God is with those who steadfastly persevere" and every day we see the Truth in them as time and time again, by the Grace of Allah (AH Glory be to Him) we are able to defeat a force that is not only numerically stronger than us but also formidably armed — far better armed, far better equipped, than we can ever hope to be.
Despite its blatant aggression — in complete defiance of those Quranic precepts that not only do we respect but which may people over the earth hold dear, whether they are, Muslims or not — Moscow has been making ridiculous allegations about the situation in Afghanistan.
Those claims have been made to try to hide the real nature of the Kremlin's aggressive policy. Moscow has constantly claimed since the beginning of the invasion that Afghanistan poses a threat to the Soviets. But this stands in contrast to the claim it made for decades that Moscow's relations with Kabul were a model of peaceful coexistence, a prime example of neighbourly relations between a small country and a big country, each - with different systems of government and social structures but living peacefully together.
The truth is that there was no threat from our nation but the Russians were fearful that the communists who were in power at the time, the traitors who sold out the motherland and slaughtered their own people, would be removed and an Islamic government introduced.
Moscow and its puppet in Kabul also claim that the Russians were invited in by the government of the time to protect them against outside intervention. So far neither the Soviets nor thpir puppet regime have been able to produce any evidence to prove that such an invitation was ever made.
If such an invitation was made why was Amin, the then head of the government, slaughtered by the Russian invaders ? Babrak was in no way authorised nor able to invite the Russians for he was not inside Afghanistan when his predecessor Amin was toppled. He v/as brought into the country by the Russians and imposed on our people.
How can one rejy on offers of Russian friendship
and who would tro^t in Moscow's soft and gentle / ■ <* . tones when‘ in reality the Soviets are nothing but
expansionists who intend to enslave nations.	,
The Russian government has been interfering
if
directly and indirectly in our internal affairs since the 19th century but over the years the incompetent governments that held power not only remained silent but contributed towards the implementation of Moscow's colonial designs as well.
International Guarantees
Moscow pretends to seek international guarantees for non-interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan but the only guarantee necessary is one from the Kremlin which has blatently committed aggression against our nation and is killing our innocent people mercilessly.
Moreover, who are the Russians to seek guarantees of non-interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan ? Our country has never been part of the socialist bloc nor has it been attacked by any foreign power other than the Soviets. If the Russians withdraw from Afghanistan they should ensure that they never again make the mistake of invading Afghanistan.
If Moscow is serious and honest in its claim to seek guarantees it holds the key to the solution for Afghanistan and / would suggest it accepts the following for a swift end to the conflict:
—	the immediate withdrawal of all its troops from Afghanistan ;
—	the restoration, of the sovereignty, territorial integrity and Islamic status of Afghanistan ;
the restoration of the right of the Afghan people to self-determination, free from outside intervention, coercion or restraint;
—	and the voluntary return of the Afghan refugess to their homeland.
Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan is firmly committed to achieving these objectives and, 'Inshaa-'Allah, will not rest until every Russian soldier is* either dead or expelled from the land.
But the One to best express our emotions is surely Allah (All Glory be to Him) Himself Who in two beautiful verses says in the Quran :
Their intention is ' To extinguish God's Light
(By blowing) with their mouths :
But God will complete (The revel anon of) His Light,
Even though the Unbelievers May detestm(it).
It is He Who has sent His Apostle with Guidance And the Religion of Truth,
That he may proclaim it
6
The Mujahideen Monthly