inhabitants with the hearts and minds of the Muslims of the other parts of the world. The forty-year-long Communist rule failed toeliminate the religion which survived even the long oppression of ten years of Cultural Revolution. It is amazing how bravely they faced the days of the destruction of their mosques by the bulldozers and tanks of Mao’s Red Army. During the Cultural Revolution, the mosques’ gates were gutted. But when some years ago the Chinese government was forced to declare civil liberties, new gates and doors were ordered to be made for the mosques which had been turned into nightclubs, cinemas, Communist propaganda centers and stables by Mao. Islam proved to be everlasting and finally the mosque-turned barrooms and stables were re-changed into mosques
Al-Hamdulellah, now there are more than 200 mosques where the Muslims pray five times a day with their faces towards Makkah. Friday prayers are offered in those mosques and the imams use loudspeakers for their sermons (khutbahs) with about 75% of the Muslims in attendance. Since 1980
Eid prayers are also allowed to be offered in these mosques.
Many Islamic books arc available at book stores.Hajj movies attract large gatherings in Turkistan’s bazaars. Islamic literature is usually brought in from Pakistan. Prayer-rugs, beads and calendars in Uighuri are available in the bazaars. Audio-cassettes containing recitation from Qur'an-e-Hakim by world-famous Qari the late Abdul Basset are available everywhere.
The hearts of Turkistan’s people beat with the hearts of the rest of the Muslim Ummah. Afghan Jihad is regarded as a minaret of light there. Pictures of Shahecd Gen. Muhammad Ziaul Haqq are hanging in every house, shop and street. They call him “Martyr of Islam” and unintentionally using his name without the word “S haheed” angers them.
During the Cultural Revolution a grey colored uniform was required, but now every one is free to put on clothes of her/his own choice. People are putting on their Islamic and traditional
Page 37
clothes. You will not find a single Turkistani Muslimah bare-headed. They are going to the bazaars and to the factories, but in their full Islamic dresses. Chinese women put on stockings, but Mao’s iron fist failed to compel any Muslimah to put on stockings.
Islam, the Islamic culture, and the Muslims survived the unparalleled atrocities by Mao, but unfortunately this part of the Muslim world has been forgotten and ignored by the rest of the Ummah. Nothing has been published regarding the events and developments in Eastern Turkistan, and few contacts have been established with Eastern Turkistan. Very little is known of what they have suffered since 1948 when Mao took over.
By visiting this area as well as establishing cultural and literary contacts, Muslims will see an example of how steadfast faith has sustained the Ummah during 40 years of adversity and will bring the blessing of unity in Islam to both sides of the border. Insha-Allah.
Translated by Hamed