Islamic Jihad in Afghanistan of which Dr. Azzam represented an important link in the chain. He has accompanied the march of Jihad in Afghanistan for nearly eight years and has utilized speech and pen to publicize it and bring it out of regionalism and nationalism into the stratum of the whole Islamic world. He made the Afghan Jihad a focus of interest and a joint venture for all Muslims.
Sheikh Abdullah Azzam has often said, concerning the numerous attempts to take him out of the Afghan scene, that he will never leave the Afghan cause unless he is forcibly removed or killed. His greatest wish was to be martyred in the cause of Allah which has now gone into fulfilment. He has fulfilled most of his other wishes as well. He has participated in Jihad and has helped others to participate with either their services or their financial contributions. He has established the Islamic Coordination Council which includes nearly 20 Islamic organizations working in support of the Afghan Jihad, offering services inside and outside Afghanistan in the fields of education, heaJth, relief, social care, and the like, administered by efficient staff stationed in numerous places in the liberated areas and refugee camps. He 1 given speeches and lectures in mosques, clubs, and conferences in nearly every country of the world, has authored about 20 books and brochures, and has published a weekly and a monthly magazine to promote the Jihad and to confront the designs of the enemies of Jihad.
He believed that one of the most serious designs of the enemies of Jihad was the conflict between the Hizbi-lslami and the Jamiat-i-lslami resulting in the Takhar incident. Since then the honourable Sheikh had not enjoyed sleep or rest or had his mind at ease. He worked day and night to close the r'.tt between the Mujahideen and travelled to the extreme north to the scone of the incident to meet the parties \o (he conflict. He made this affair his main concern until Allah favoured him with success in obtaining the signatures of Eng. Hekmatyar and Prof. Re' bani on a document of reconciliation between the two parties. The two leaders disclosed in their condolence speeches that this agreement was concluded in the night before his assassination. When asked why he had come so late at night, he said that decisions to bring good to
society not be delayed. After his death, a meeting between Hekmatyar and Rabbani was held to formalize their agreement to cooperate in the solution of this problem and for future cooperation.
Shaheed Ebrahim son of Dr. Azzam
Dr. Azzam left behind three sons: Huthaifa (17), Hamza (12), and Musab (5), three married daughters, and a Mujahida wife, whom he had given the option to live in a safe place with adequate facilities or be with him in his dangerous life. She insisted on sharing his struggle with him and plans to continue in the Jihad after his death. Her family is coming from Jordan to try to convince her to leave, but she says she will not leave. She has her own Jihad activities in the refugee camps in Pakistan-ten schools and a nursery and a sewing and training center for widows and sisters of Shaheed. The wife of her Shaheed son Muhammed is also staying with them. She says, "My Jihad is here and my family is here. How can I think of leaving? Perhaps the enemies of Islam think that they will stop Jihad by killing my husband. Enshallah, his death will bring a better Jihad from all of us. We do not cry for my husband and sons, they are Shaheed. And we do not cry for ourselves; our Jihad will be better, Enshallah!"
Colleagues of the Shaheed and the learned scholars of the Ummah have now the grave responsibility to continue his work. Jihad is continuing until the Day of Judgment and the banners of Islam cannot be allowed to fall because of the death of an individual. They have to be held high from generation to generation and from one Mujahid to another.
The vow of Azzam's son
In an interview with the Mujahideen Monthly, Sheikh Abdullah Azzam's oldest living son Huthaifa vowed that he will continue the mission of his father. This 17 year-old boy relates that he was also planning to accompany his father to the mosque that fateful day, but when he opened the car door to get in, his father directed him to stay at home. Had his father not prevented him from going in the car, he most certainly would have embraced martyrdom along with his father and two brothers. Now he vows, along with all the Islamic supporters of the Afghan Mujahideen, to continue the mission of his Shaheed father and brothers until the establishment of a truly Islamic state in Afghanistan, with Allah's permission.
Shaheed Mohammad son of Dr. Azzam.
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
If