mmmmmmmMmmmmmmmttmmm The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991 mmmmmmmmmm Page22 Wm®m
Mohammad Ilyas “Zara” Head of the Education Committee HIA recently spoke with the reporter of "Shahadat" in Peshawar.
rans lalion: SayedAnwar "Nasr”
Excerpts:
How would you describe the role of education in building the spiritual values of the members of the Society?
In the name of Allah, the most Beneficent, the most Merciful.
The construction of a building is similar to that of a society. If the foundation of a building is strong and the bricks which form the walls are solid and properly weaven then it will not easily collapse.
f
In order to have a strong and educated society, the need to accelerate educational programmes thus arise. Allah says in this regard. “Are those who know and those who don’t equal?” However, the invasion of Soviet forces in our country further disrupted the education system there.
What differences do you think exist between theMujahideen education system and the one before the start of Jihad?
It was a dark age before Jihad started. The dark clouds of secularism and anti-Islamic teachings were hanging Over the horizons of education in Afghanistan, Communist ideology and secularism were taught in the schools and institutions of higher learning and Islamic teachings gradually disappeared.
i	'	/
I
Now despite all the social and political instabilities that we encounter, education under these circumstances has increased dramatically.
r
This year a big number of students from other Mujahideen parties have shown interest to join the HIA schools to continue their studies, why iS this?
When the Afghan Interim Govt (AIG) was set-up, , some Mujahideen parties placed their learning institutions under the control of the said Govt for financial support. Now
that the AIG has been dismantled, the schools face severe shortage of funds.
The HIA thus, has opened the doors of its schools to all Afghan refugee students regardless of their party affiliation. To educate the Afghan nation is one of the top priorities of HIA,becauseour country was lagging-behind under the totalitarian regimes of the past.
What is the total number of elementary, secondary and High schools of HIA inside and outside Afghanistan?
1 -	Elementary Schools	-204
2-	Secondary Schools	-30
3-	Lycee (High School)	-18
4-	Religious Schools and Darul-Hifaz
(Schools for memorizing Al-Qur’an by heart) - 258
•Total No. of HIA’s Schools	-510
What is the number of academic and administrative staff
of the Education Committee and the Schools?
/
The administrative and academic staff of Elementary Schools is 1000 persons, while that of the Secondary and High Schools consists of 413 persons.
%
The number of students studying in refugee camps in Pakistan reaches to 70630 while the number of those who are enroled in schools inside the country is 36520. Total number would be 107150 students.
How many students are given hostels and provided transportation to enable them to continue their studies?