Commander Tariq with his Mujahideen.
booty. The Russians sent a large convoy to crush the Mujahideen in the region in the winter of 1980 He ordered his Mujahideen not to let the Russians to re-establish the district headquarters. The fight went for 15 days and he was able to caputre 400 Kalashnikoves and other rifles with large quantity of ammunitions.
In 1981 on the HIA Amir's direction Tariq went to Jabul Seraj district. Organizing the fighting fronts of Salang and Jabul Seraj he proved to be master of orgnaizing Mujahideen and establishing new fronts of Jihad He was always ordered to cope and guide the neigbour fronts and help Mujahideen of other front when they face difficulties. In the same year he was appointed as second in command to the Amir of Jihad in Parwan and Kapisa province.
In the 1987 HIA’s party election he easily made It to become member of the Central Counil by winning more than ninty per cent vote in Parwan
and Kapisa province.
His headquarters, known as Shafaq front, plays top role in giving lessons to the Russians convoys and the military base in Qala-i-Surkh. His area Is marked by the Russians as black area' Each time when the Russians' convoys came from north or cross the Salang toward north they take special security measures, but never at the history of Jihad convoy has passed his area without leaving behind the reckage of army trucks and tanks. His stronghold is not only a base for military
propose, but it is a centre from where he runs dozens of schools, madrasah and ideological training courses. Frequent conferences and gatherings are held in different part of the province by him for the enlightening of the people to be aware of the world attitude toward the Afghan Jihad. Special courses are held by him to inform people of the Russian-Kabul conspiricy and blackmailing tactics and this way he made it safe for his followers and himself that a government can not infliterate in his area of command.
The Mujahideen Monthly
44
November 1988