$»>» The Mujahideen , ApnllMay, 1990

^Wrongj^ani^^
The Amir of the Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan Engineer Hekmatyar was interviewed by representatives of the Russian news agency Tass several weeks before the March 6 military uprising. This was the first ever meeting of Hekmatyar with the Russian news agency and lasted for three hours in the Amir’s special office. The team of journalists included the head of the political wing of Tass central bureau George M. Shmiliv, professional photographer of the same wing Dimitry Mokolov, and the representative of Tass based in Islamabad Nicolai Semeincov.
George Shmiliv: Wearethank-ful to you for giving us the opportunity of meeting with you for the first time. We hope you will give our people ^ reason to think over your views on different matters. In our country people are familiar with your name more than any other Afghan leader because you are one of the hardest enemies of the Communist Kabul regime.
Hekmatyar: I welcome you. I think it is necessary now to enlighten the Russian people of the facts prevailing in Afghanistan. I hope you will convey my thoughts to the people in your country without any modifications. After Gorbachev embarked on Perestroika and Glasnost, the world was waiting for a positive and realistic approach by the Kremlin leadership in Afghanistan so as to stop the war there, but still that has not materialized, and destruction and devastation by SCUD missiles and heavy artillery,etc. is the order of the day. This is because the puppet regime in Kabul is
supported by Russia whose leadership is still interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan.
This may be because of the elements advancing the cause of Brezhnev’s unsuccessful Afghan policy. Even though theRussian parliament has condemned the interference in Afghanistan and called it an inhuman act,
to our surprise the past policy initiated by Brezhnev is still practiced. If the Russians can accept antagonism to Communism in Eastern Europe, even in Russia itself, then, in Afghanistan, denial of the people’s right to self-determination is beyond comprehension, especially when Gen. Najib is an illegitimate ruler and has no base in the people. 241 districts out of 282 have been liberated by Mujahideen, and the other districts are besieged by them. The regime has no control over the land and needs to reinforce its army with aeroplanes. By and large. Mujahideen control 90% of the territory of Afghanistan, and the remaining areas the regime faces difficulties in controlling. Russia must stop supplying arms to Kabul. Afghans must have the right to determine their
own future in accordance with their traditions and culture.
We are surprised over the meetings between Russiaand the US on the Afghan problem. We will never accept an American role in Afghanistan. A Russian compromise with US forZahir Khan’s re-installation in power will be totally unacceptable to the Afghan nation. The Afghan people will not accept an imposed person, and the Russians should take note of it. WRONG CANNOTBE UNDONE WITH WRONG. If Russia wants to compensate for its past, it must leave the Afghans to themselves and stop conspiracies with others on their fate.
Journalist: You seem to reject the recent US policy, don’t you?
Hekmatyar: I do, of course. In addition to America’s, I also reject Shevamadze’s proposals; the point on which both Russia and the USA can agree is to stop interfering in Afghanistan.
Journalist: Is this your own stand or of the resistance as a whole?
Hekmatyar: Except for a few Afghan elements who have no relation with the Afghan Jihad, the whole Afghan nation is averse to any American say in our affairs. We, the Afghan nation, warn all the circles aspiring for American influence not to expect any success in their designs. We want to establish a free, independent, non-aligned Islamic Afghan government We will not let any power turn this country into its satellite.
Page 16