EDITORIAL
THE TIMETABLE
From the very beginning the Soviet military action in A fghanistan was condmned universally. It was branded as inhuman, brutal, and complete violation of the United Nations charter. Non-Aligned Movement also condmned it because it had robbed away the freedom of its member country.
The Kremlin was urged to call back the troops and respect the right of self-determination, territorial integrity, and freedom, of Afghanistan. There was no justification for Russia to station its troops on the soil of a foreign country. But all went unheeded.
Yet in spite of seven years of genocide and devastation of Afghans and their country the Russians have failed to defeat the Islamic resistance. They have also failed to strengthen their claws and stabilize their puppet regime in Kabul.
Now the Russaisn have resorted to a new tactic which will make their stay possible in a diplomatic way and deprive the Mujahideen and their families (refugees) of humanitarian help of the free world such as food and shelter. The Kremlin leaders think that they will be able to get rid of the Islamic resistance and reach their goal through diplomatic intrigues.
Pullout timetable from the Kremlin point of view if agreed upon, will taper off the momentum of resistance and provide the Soviet a chance to make the best use of the time-gap by sending back demoralized troops and bringing in fresh ones to settle things in Afghanistan according to their entire satisfaction. And the Russians are so swift in this task, as experienced by the Mujahideen, that they can land their troops within 30 hours by land and five to six hours by air.
For instance, it took their fresh troops only few hours to reach northern Afghanistan to battle against the Mujahideen. In Herat, it is always the same that usually half of the Russian troops are sent fresh from Takhta Bazar military, base across the border. In 1986 one commando brigade was sent to Paktia to take part in the Khost offensive and it did not take them more than six hours to land by air.
Now the distant bases exist in the Qandahar province, 290 miles south-west front Kabul, capital of Afghanistan. Qandahar via Herat on highway is around 400 miles and via Kabul is about 600 miles away from the Soviet border. It took the Russians a few hours to reach Afghanistan by air and a day or two by land. In the light of all this it is baffling as to why Mr. Diego Cordovez, UN representative, is trying to convince Pakistan, Iran, and China that the Russians should be given time in terms of months and years.
If we estimate the speed of a tank 20 miles per hour it will take them about 20 hours via Herat and 30 hours via Kabul Salang to cross the Afghan-Soviet border. As for the airforce they have no problem as they can return within six hours. To be sure, the Mujahideen will leave all roads open leading to the Soviet Union, provided the Russians genuinely interested in leaving Afghanistan.
Obviously, the time factor has no bearing on the Soviet pullout. Their real motive is to strengthen their puppet regime during the period which they asked for. Or to their con-vinence they may install another puppet regime during that period.
We believe there will be no letup in the genocide ana the savage instinct of the Soviets will continue to have its untrammelled play in Afghanistan. We do hope that Pakistan, Iran and China fully understand the Kremlin strategy.
And if the UN representative, Mr. Cordovez, accedes to the Soviet demand, the Afghan nation will count the UN role as (a) legitimizing the Soviet atrocities in the past seven years, (b) the Russians will be officially allowed by the UN to stay for the continuation of their brutalities in Afghanistan.	_________________________________
The Mujahideen Monthly
Jan - Feb 1987