of Zionist imperialism and capital hegemony.
It was not the first time nor would it be the last, when our so-called defenders of human rights would engross themselves in a world of fantasies and commit all their energies to fruitless battle with reality. Like a fast melting lake of ice under the scorching heat of a burning sun, Western hopes evaporated into the thin air of permanent uncertainty. The various soico-political calculations crashed head-long with the immutable edifice of human revolutionary determination .which is prepared to free itself from the shackles of injustice and break the numerous fences of denial constructed around it in preventing fundamental changes on the globe.
The Mujahideen have of course learnt their own lessons. Drawing heavily from the unreliability of past friends and foes alike, Muslim revolutionaries a year ago decided to proceed as a united front, which brought Khost as its first fruit. Two nights ago when the battle around Gardez was just starting, Islamic forces captured twenty six postsand more from the Marxist forces. By the end of the third day, the Mujahideen had already penetrated the suburbs. The fall of Gardez seems today highly imminent. No communist reinforcement could relieve the city except through Logar which is also controled by the Mujahideen. The geo-political expectations of the West that Afghan crisis would pay them are nowhere materializing.
The only alternative is to stop the military advancement of the Muslim revolutionaries through increased military assistance to Marxist regime in Kabul— though that would amount to administering anaesthetic drugs to a clinically dead patient — because any weapons and ammunition sent to the besieged Gardez would eventually fall in to Mujahideen hands. This therefore becomes a double calamity. In apprehending such situations Zionist manupulators from all comers of the globe are putting in their last’breath to direct public attention from the on-going
M
The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991 3
Page 29
armed conflict in Afghanistan to a series of barren political initiatives.
To realize this, UN appears to have been appointed to play the major role. Iran and Saudi Arabia are chosen to actas mid wives for a proposed republic of Afghanistan that must have a remote control in Washington. Tehran seemed to have fully accepted her own roles. Various Shia Mujahideen parties based in Iran have been secretly guaranteed a protected status regardless of the outcome of popular elections. This would pay Iran since what she wants is a future Afghanistan that could at least stand with her in the leadership crisis between Tehran and Jeddah. This is also an illusion, since both Iran and Saudi Arabia failed to play a decisive role in the last Gulf-crisis during which they unconsciously frustrate away many of their old sympathizers and made their die-hard supporters to be as confused as ever. Islamabad also appeared to have been pressurized by unknown forces to give UNO peace initiatives the first priority. To be honest anything short of a convincing Mujahideen’s victory in Afghanistan would never pay Pakistan.
alleged constant transmission of imported arms from the seaport in Karachi to refugees camps in Peshawar, has been attributed to be the major cause behind terrorist operations through out the country. But Afghan exiles on the other side of the border are poor familes of the martyred Mujahideen. They are widows, orphans and the wounded who need not weapons but secured domiciles.
These different reasons even if existing are totally not free from illusions. As an illustration the tribal areas in Pakistan manufacture their guns and the presence of Mujahideen and Muhajireen in Peshawar and other major cities has contributed greatly to the industrial and commercial development of these localities. The financial aids and grants suspended from both Muslim fighters and Pakistani government were very much beneficial in that all revolutionary parties concerned are now self reliant. That was what it used to be in the past. Finally the creation of a true Islamic government that represents a genuine majority of Afghan nation is one of the best assets Islamabad could have in a region full of hostile neighbors.
People may argue extensively in the press and speak disgruntly in seminars and conferences that Afghan crisis is now staying longer than expected and that the influx of refugees is becoming an economic liability on Pakistan, since all financial assistances are now virtually cut-off. Similarly, the
Involvement of neighbouring Muslim countries by America ih her strategy is a ploy to give the impression of an international consensus especially since the UNO too is firmly committed. This is the core of American diplomatic terrorism whereby, apparently innocent sovereign states are intimidated by