The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990

Eng. Hekmatyar meeting with elders inside Afghanistan

convince the world or the neighboring republics of the Russian “openness” or good intentions towards their Muslim population.
On the other hand, the United States is also hesitant at the prospect of a free Af-ghanistan,exposing their duality of character and thcdouble standard maintained by the superpowers towards Muslims. The US wanted the Soviet forces out of the country but they did not want a free nation. They aspire for an Afghanistan neither occupied by Russian troops nor the master of its own destiny but something in-between. What is “in-between” is an Afghanistan, not singing their own tune, but dancing to the tunes composed by American masters. The Americans also have the idea that they could settle their international disputes with the Russians on the price of Afghan land.
So, with these ulterior motives in view, they are ready even to sacrifice their own ideals of democracy. They are ready to welcome Zahir Khan and impose the old feudal istic structure on the Afghan people. They befriend such elements in Afghanistan who stand for monarchy, religious dictatorship, and tribal existence. They do not mingle with people who stand for free elections in Afghanistan. Even Gen. Najib is preferred to such just and really democratic elements among the Afghans as Hekmatyar of the Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan who stands for an elected government not less democratic than in the US itself. And, why is Hekmatyar condemned by the US? Because he commits the “sin” of wanting Afghanistan to be a free nation, free from outside influence and free inside from the clutches of monarchy, of feudalism, and of a religious dictatorship.
The irony of the situation is that the Western media always calls Hekmatyar “a fundamentalist” and a “hard-liner” while they attach to the monarchists, feudalistic tribal elements, and religious hierarchy of “peers” the symbols of nationalists, moderates, and democrats. What is the Western criteria for nationalism, moderation, and democracy? Are they nationalists because they agree to an unjust superpower influence in Afghanistan? Are they moderate because they are ready to compromise their national interest? Are they democrats because they want to impose a selected Shoura on the Afghan people, and they accept ZahirKhan as a king and a tribal feudal structure as their social system?
Is Hekmatyar fundamentalist because he is the only political leader cherishing free and impartial party-based elections? Is he fundamentalist because he negates the principle of a permanent role for Pirs (religious leaders) in the governmental hierarchy? Is he a hardliner because he is the only person condemning the philosophy of selection rather than election, the continuation of kingship and the tribal feudal power structure? Is he a hard-liner because he thinks every Afghan national, of high or low class is entitled to the right to vote?
Perhaps he is not “moderate” because he knows the difference be-
tween moderation and compromise on national interest and is not inclined to compromise. Perhaps he is not considered a “nationalist” because he is the enemy to superpower influence in Afghanistan.
We are duty bound to discern the true perspective of things, the relationship of people and events in our society, and not to be misled by false names and symbols which are symbols alone and nothing more The Hezb-i-Islami is a true Muslim Afghan organization which will not compromise on Afghan and Muslim interests but which welcomes friendly relations with all the nations of the world on the basis of equal sovereign status and non-interference in the internal affairs of other nations.
The Hezb-i-Islami and its leader are not a danger to the free world, but, rather, they are demanding the same rights demanded by the free world, the right of self-determination, of holding free and fair general elections under the principle of “one man one vote” tochoose a leader for a fixed term, and of having an elected assembly to enact and enforce a constitution and law which uphold the ideals of justice , democracy, and freedom, the same ideals of a true Islamic society.
To let the Afghan nation freely determine its own future is the only way out, the only path to lasting peace inside and outside Afghanistan. To seek other solutions or to experiment with mechanisms other than elections will definitely result in a series of never ending upheavals. The single road to peace and happiness is through the consent of each and every Afghan, because each and every Afghan has been awakened to his political rights by his Jihad, his struggle for his rights and his freedom.
Page 42