Union for brainwashing and indoctrination purposes. In short, the Soviet conduct in Afghanistan makes a mockery of the UN Charter, the Declaration of Human Rights, international law and the norms of civilized behavior.
The world outside may not be fully comprehending the barbarity and utter ruthlessness of Soviet aggressor, unleashed on our helpless civilian population. Let me therefore cite just a few of the countless atrocities being committed by the Soviet Union in Afghanistan.
Soviet troops picked up dozens of innocent civilians from an Uruzgan village in Central Afghanistan following an ambush-'near-by. Relatives of the captured/viilagers approached the Soviet-installed authorities in Kabul but to no avail, since the captives who had been
flown away in Soviet helicopters remained untraceable. Eventually, some shepherds accidentally located their bodies in a deserted valley, halfly eaten by. wild animals and carnivours birds. All of them had been thrown down alive from a high altitude as their bodies contained no signs of bullets, etc. Indeed, in i the logig, of Soviet communism, perpetration of such crimes are not only justified but deemed legitimate.
Villages all over Afghnistarf have witnessed mass killings, followed by the bulldozing of bodies dead..as well as alive. One such carnage took place at Kerala in Kunar province, where Soviet troops gunned down 1100 civilians and then buried the bodies in one spot with bulldozers. Surviving members of the massacred ' families now live in a refugee camp in NWFP
(Pakistan) renamed Kerala in memory of the holocaust. Another similar massacre involving serveral hundred Afghans took place at Qarghee in Laghman a few months back. The heavy shelling and bombing of our villages has reduced flourishing communities into unplanned graveyards, with none left to perform their funerals or retrieve the wounded from the rubble. These are some of the countless cases that expose the monstrosities of Soviet outrage in Afghanistan.
Tens of thousands of our families are suffering the agony of missing relatives, imprisoned and then never heard of presumably executed or tortured to death. As the leader of the Mujahideen delegation representing the people of Afghanistan before this world body I am also one of those who cannot locate the graves of their missing fathers, brothers and other relatives all taken to prison cells and then perhaps to Soviet slaughter houses.
The Soviet installed Karmal regime and its agents in Afghanistan claim that the "limited contingents" of Soviet forces were invited by the government of the time. They maintain it was initially Hafiz-ullah Amin and later Babrak Karmal who invited Soviet forces to Afghanistan. Recently Babrak Karmal stated that his party (PDPA) had invited the Russian forces. But the. whole world knows that the PDPA assumed power through a military coup and the entire nation has risen against its rapacious rule. The Afghan army units have joined the Mujahideen (Isla mic resistance) one after the other. The Mujahideen were on the verge of toppling the military dictatorship in a popular revolution. A » few days before the fall of Amin, the so-called PDPA in one of jts plenums had announced that Babrak and his colleagues from the Parcham faction had been sent to Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, USA
i<
k
The Mujahideen Monthly
i
11