Although we were concerned that the success of our Jihad would be deferred for a while, we realized that the invasion brought some advantages as well. Any Afghan who had any doubt about Taraki, Amin, and Karmal being Soviet puppets would now clearly know the truth; the Soviet invasion proved who was propping up these regimes. Ever since Taraki's coup in April 1978, we had been facing the problem of convincing our nation that the Communist regime was the slave of the Soviets. Our people could not comprehend what the difference was between this regime and that of King Zahir Shah. To help our people understand the consequences of a Communist regime was very hard. The Soviet invasion solved our problem. It would unite our nation to stand beside our movement.
Another advantage of the invasion would be to change our Jihad from a local issue to an international issue. Our struggle against the Communist regime would have broader implications regionally and internationally and we would find worldwide support. Our neighbouring Muslim countries would support our movement to protect their own independence and regional security. World powers would sympathize with our struggle against this threatening example of Communist expansion.
Thus, the Soviet invasion was beneficial for our Resistance from two points of view: one, it united our nation against the Communists, and, two, it broadened the issue into an international issue which elicited world sympathy toward our struggle.
Q. It is said that the morning after the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, the leaders of the other parties came to your central office to see you. Do you remember what you discussed then?
Ans. We discussed what will happen and what we should do. Some of them were very worried and some were of the view that we should encourage the Western nations to show a strong reaction toward the Soviet invasion. They represented many different views; the views that prevailed among the people of our nation were in the minds of these leaders.
Q. The assistance of some countries worldwide was delayed yet eventually they took the side
of the Mujahideen. Why do you think they made this decision?
Ans. To answer this question, let me give you some examples.
When the Brigade of Asmar (Kunar Province) with two helicopters gave themselves up to the Hezb-i-lslami, I discussed with General Fazle Haq, the Governor of the NWFP of Pakistan, how we could bring these two helicopters to Pakistan. He said he would consult the higher authorities but admitted that he did not think anyone would agree to it. Finally, their answer was indeed negative.
You probably remember the reaction of the American President Carter to the Soviet invasion. He declared that if the Soviets took one step further, the U.S. would not put up with it. Clearly he thought that the Afghan issue was a dead issue, that there was no probability of the recovery of Afghanistan from the Soviet grasp, and that the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan was unimaginable.
The attitude was strong at that time that whenever the Soviets would enter a country, they would never leave. We do not remember any country at that time who expressed any hope that the Soviets would leave. Everyone thought that in a short time it would be all over. In a press conference on his trip to India shortly after the invasion, Brezhnev was asked about the situation in Afghanistan. He said that in three months there would be peace and security prevailing in Afghanistan. He meant that the resistance would be liquidated and that any scattered skirmishes would soon stop.
If the Resistance had been unable to prove that it could continue the war and if it had not shown the ability to withstand the Soviet invasion, never would anyone have taken the risk to back a resistance against the Soviets for which there was no future hope. No one would have risked the enmity of the Soviets. However, when these countries perceived that, even after the Soviet invasion, the war was continuing and that the Soviets were not able to quickly crush the resistance, their hopes were raised, their interest in the Mujahideen grew, and they took positions to back our struggle.
Q. Radio Kabul and other media have reported the arrest of a few Kabul regime military officers and indicated that this plot by which Hekjnatyar wanted to topple the
Kabul regime has failed. What information do you have about this?
Ans. My proposal stands that military officers who are not members of Communist parties should stand up and topple the Najib regime, and then together with the Mujahideen commanders situated around Kabul form a Revolutionary Council. This council should within six months hold elections for an elected council and an elected government. The Revolutionary Council should then transfer power to the elected government.
The arrest of a few people in Kabul and the extensive propaganda related to their arrest had no effect on our proposal. Our forces in Kabul are organized into small cells, each operating independently of the others and without knowledge of the others. The cells are numerous but very small so that if an arrest is made very few are exposed.
In the recent case, the regime arrested one person who was forced by physical and mental torture to reveal the names of anyone that he knew. The government arrested several innocent people from among the government workers and students and then advertised this action as "foiling a coup".
The government is very worried about an army uprising and for that reason they plot against certain officers and arrest them under the pretence that they were planning a coup d'etat.
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
9