been deliberately destroyed and replaced by a system laying stress on ideological propaganda.
As well as stressing communist ideology the educational policy has been designed to achieve a double objective : linguistic fragmentation by encouraging the learning of minority languages to the detriment of Pushtu, and the promotion of the Russian language.
CONCERN
When Dr Ermacora's first report was submitted to the 41st session of the Human Rights Commission, the Commission expressed "its profound concern at the grave and massive human rights violations in Afghanistan*.
The Commission also "expressed its distress at the widespread violations of the right to life, liberty and security of persons, including the commonplace practice of torture against the regimes opponents, indiscriminate bombardments of the civilian population and the deliberate destruction of crops".
At the session, in March last year, the Commission called on the Afghanistan government to end the violations and in particular the military repression being conducted against the civilian population. It decided to extend Dr Ermacora's mandate for a year and asked him to further investigate the situation.
As a result Dr Ermacora wrote to Afghanistan's foreign minister in June seeking the government's co-operation -* only one of several futile requests to the government asking for assistance in his enquiries.
Dr Ermacora said : "I wish therefore to make yet another appeal .to Your Excellency's Government to extend its co-operation in the implementation of my mandate, primarily by facilitating a
visit to Afghanistan. . . "
The Special Rapporteur received no reply — little wonder when it is remembered how much the government and the Russians have to hide. In light of the government s refusal to co-operate the Special Rapporteur decided to hear witnesses in the refugee camps in Baluchistan and in the North-West Frontier Province of Pakistan.
In his report Dr Ermacora said he ''was once more able to benefit frorp the particularly valuable assistance of the Pakistani authorities".
During his trip to Pakistan in July and August the Special Rapporteur visited various refugee camps and hospitals and interviewed people from 16 provinces of Afghanistan, fn Baluchistan he visited the camps of Piraliazi I, II and III; Saranan ; Malgagi II and III; and Katwai. He also visited three hospitals at Quetta : Ansari Hospital, Alkhidmat Hospital and Ittehad Islami Mujahideen Hospital. There he interviewed a number of Afghan men, women and children who had been wounded either in bombardments of villages or on their way to seek refuge in Pakistan.
Afterwards he visited the North-West Frontier Province where he visited the Munda refugee camp and two hospitals in Peshawar, the Afghan Surgical ‘ Hospital and Mujahideen Afghan Shaheed Mohamed Umar Hospital. To gather further information the Special Rapporteur also met non-governmental organisations in consultative status with Pakistan's Economic and Social Council as well as organisations and associations directly concerned with the conflict.
During his investigation as well as gathering evidence in Pakistan the Special Rapporteur also met representatives of various organisations in Geneva, Paris and LiestaJ, Switzerland, who were monitoring the war. Notable among these were the Bibliotheca Afghanica
Foundation in Liestal.
■* He also held consultations with a representative of the Asian Lawyers Legal Enquiries Committee (Association of Lawyers for Democracy) who delivered to him Justice Azeem's Deposition.
As such it is clear that Dr Ermacora has taken evidence about the situation in Afghanistan from a broad base, not just members of the Mujahideen, who could conceivably be accused of bias by the Kabul regime, but also from non-Muslims who have no vested interest in the conflict except to see that the internationally accepted norms of justice are upheld.
It is significant that even though the Mujahide’en, the Pakistani Government and non-Muslim groups were willing to fully cooperate with the Special Rapporteur the Kabul regime and the Russians were not.
If they are not guilty of gross violations of human rights — as they claim — why are they not willing to co-operate? The truth is of course that they are guilty and are fearful that if they admitted Dr Ermacora to Afghanistan it would only help to substantiate the serious charges that have Jaeen brought against them.
This fear is highlighted by the fact that the Afghanistan Government again failed to respond when, after completing his tour of refugee camps and hospitals in Pakistan, Dr Ermacora wrote once more to Afghanistan's foreign minister seeking co-operation.
In his letter the Special Rapporteur said ; "I have received information relating to the situation of human rights in Afghanistan including information communicated to me personally by a number of Afghan citizens and other persons. I feel it is my duty to let Your Excellency know that the information I - have received includes allegations of violations of human rights, some of which
The Mujahideen Monthly
25