nation, are better equipped and well understand the fighting tactics of the enemy. They courageously launch big operation in or around the big cities.
Recently, Kabul experienced a series of raids of the Mujahideen. A big explosion was caused by the Mujahideen in the Soviet Embassy and Soviet Trade Attache office. In the explosion of the Qargha ammunition depots about 25 buildings were destroyed and more than 250 enemy troops killed.
The Russians have realized that they cannot smother the resistance movement as 90 percent of the countryside under the virtual control of the Mujahideen. They have established their own educational institutions, administration and the judicial system. In most of the lib-rated areas the Mujahideen grow crops and raise cattle for the meat consumption. They seek inspiration from the concept of martyrdom and this accelerates their resistence tempo for the sake of establishing an Islamic government in Afghanistan, More than 150,000 armed Mujahideen belong only to Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan.
Different Mujahideen groups have coordination in the war strategy and have formed a seven-party alliance, namely, Ittehad-i-lslami Mujahideen Afghanistan. They have also a seven-member Supreme Council, the highest decision-making body. They are representated by a single spokesman at different international fora. The political committee military committee, educational committee, communication, refugee and health committees are working under the guidance of the Supreme Council. Their multifaceted cooperation exists on all levels and in all regions of the country.
RUSSIAN SOLDIERS:
The Russians fortified by tanks, APCs, mines, gunship helicopters
and security ring posts are not safe even in the ten per-cent of the Af ghan soil. Their morale is going down day by day. The Russian soldiers are cheated by their officers who tell them that their confrontation would be with the Chinese, the Pakistanis and others in Afghanistan. But they find only the Mujahideen'who are fighting for the liberation of their country and the freedom of their faith. This damps their fighting stamina and leads them to frustration. Colonel Bashmatullah. ex-acting commander of Division 11 of Nangarhar, said that he himself had witnessed the two Russian soldiers committing suicide in Charikar, provincial centre of Par wan a year ago. Furthermore, the Russian soldiers are not able to fight the Afghan Mujahideen who are inspired by a noble cause Soldiers from Central Asia pass information to the Mujahideen. If get a chance, they join the Mujahideen and fight against the Russians, hoping after the liberation of Afghanistan their country will cast off the yoke of slavery too.
Worst of all, the Russian soldiers are commonly dope-friends. Stories go that the Russian soldiers swap away their weapons for the sake of small amount of hashish.
RUSSIANS LOSSES
A desperate resistance on the part of brave Mujahideen have compelled the Russians to triple their troops in Afghanistan — from
85,000	in 1979 to 250,000 lately stated by Dr. Najib. So far, they have lost more than 750 aircraft — jets, gunship helicopters and transport planes — and over 8500 tanks, APCs and army vehicles have been destroyed. Their casualties are thirty person a day. Last October the Russians lost 31 aircraft and about 20 aircraft were either shot down or destroyed in November.
“Not a single
±	——
refugee has
returned”
The following is the text of
interview of Eng. Gulbudin
Hekmatyar with the English
magazine ‘Herald of Karachi.
Q. Why have the guerilla groups rejected Najibullah's ceasefire offer and the Afghan government's efforts at reconciliation?
A. Bismillah ,.. Actually, this war was imposed on our nation by the Russians when they started interfering in our internal affairs. They imposed a communist government on our nation through the officers trained in the Soviet Union and through Russian military advisers. Our nation rejected this and started an armed struggle. When the struggle was almost over and the regime was on the verge of being thrown out, the Russians realised that the puppet regime could not survive and sent in troops to prolong the war — a war that was going in our nation's favour.
So, there were two main reasons
The Mujahideen Monthly
20
Jan - Feb 1987