The Mujahideen, October t November, 1991	*:
g; Page 09
Kabul. This might be justified somehow because the zeal, determination, strategy and accomplishment that all came with the Mujahideen in liberating Khost was novel since the beginning of Afghan crisis.
What Kabul regime failed however to understand was that the Mujahideen who used to be known by the White House psyche as the barefooted and divided group had eventually learnt from history. They have also chosen Ramadhan as a turning point in their armed conflictagainst global imperialism represented by the Marxist clique in the country. This month has always been a month of trials, will and power. A month of repentance and commitment. Apart from the spiritual dominance of the mind over the sensuality of the self, it has witnessed the greatest military and political victories in Islamic history.
These all are fresh confirmations that Afghan Jihad draws its inspiration from Islam alone and its completion would never be, Allah willing except in fulfillment of Islamic fundamental principles. Solutions therefore should not be sought except in accepting the natural rights of the Afghans to choose their way.	,	*>
For twelve bloody years. Mujahideen forces strenuously tried separately to claim the honour of liberating that heavily guarded border town. Khost today is fully secured under Mujahideen's hands but its revolutionary message would stay longer. It has to be considered here too so as to be able to appraise how far Muslim Revolutionaries have gone in uprooting the imperialist menace on the battle field.
Khost like Gardez is a strongly fortified city. The latter lies on a major route that qmbraces Logar and Kabul. The former is a border town, falling within the range of 200 kilometres from Peshawar and 50 kilometres from the nearest Pakistani Frontier Post. The fall of Gardez will mean a southern 1 barricade of Kabul.from many provinces though its link with the Soviet Union could still remain open for sometime.
k
The reasons why Marxist forces held out at Khost for almost a decade was primarily due not to superior arsenals available to them but as a direct consequence of Mujahideen's separatist inclination then. In any revolutionary struggle, fora common cause, unity of purpose, integration of method and primacy of not allowing petit differences to prevent the establishment of united revolutionary command are fundamental principles that could neither be by-stepped partially, nor compromised totally under any circumstances.
Any attempt to go into the battle alone against a common enemy and for a particular cause that belongs exclusively not to an individual or a certain group, is not only a political blunder or military miscalculation but also a revolutionary contradiction. The reason is simple: the cause belongs to all, and the aim is to transform the community entirely. This means the greatest the participation of everybody, the easier it becomes in fulfilling the objective of changing the whole society. That was the major explanation why earlier attempts by the Mujahideen in separately capturing this city had been futile.
Strategically, Khost like Gardez is a valley town which enjoys natural defence lines of endless chains of mountains. At a point about five kilometres to the center of the city are numerous confluences of seasonal rivers which form additional security belt around the city. In a sophisticated war, the citadel so formed from this natural landscape could be stormed by a well developed mechanized division of twentieth or twenty-first century Army.
%
Since the town falls comparatively in the center, cutting across through a targential section of the defence circle is suffice in guaranteeing a base which could be used in constructing make-shift bridges overnight. That appears to be the best that could be done as at now over these rivers. The depth and numbers of large masses of rocks present great dangers to any military navigation scheme. Similarly, airborne