The Mujahideen, September, 1991	,	Page	15
		1	A. ;	X/
	THE LIBERATION MOVEMENT IN KASHMIR AND THE WORLD			ll
✓			— . , 1 	-	1
	M		> 1	
I
The Kashmir issue, basically, is an issue of human rights. The people in Kashmir, numbering about 12 millions are constantly denied their right to self-determination and self-government. Their national, political, economic, soical, cultural and civil freedoms are continously attacked. Many third world nations have gained independence after world War II. But Kashmiris still under the alien rule. Looking at the struggle Kashmins have launched for the last two years one is assured of their ultimate success.
The movement for the liberation of Kashmir is an historical process. The Kashmir problem was the direct result of the division plan of the Indian subcontinent in 1947. Pakistan and India became independent on August 14 and 15, 1947 respectively, on the basis of two-nation theory, implying, Hindus and Muslims arc two different peoples thus deserving two different sovereign states.
Kashmir, then a princely state, was also to be made a part of Pakistan because it was Muslim majority area.
It would be in conformity with the decided principle by Hindu, Muslims and British rulers to the-effect that Muslim majority areas be included in Pakistan while Hindu majority areas be made part of India. But in the case of Kashmir	this
consensual principle was violated by the British rulers and Hindu leaders. They were joined by the non Muslim Dogra Maharja of Kashmir, Hari Singh, to annex Kashmir to India.
To superimpose the will of Hari Singh over the wishes of the overwhelming majority of Kashmiri Muslims, who aspired to join Pakistan, was a blatant violation of all the democratic norms. The question arises why the last British vicerory to India Lord Mounthbatten and Hindu leaders like Gandhi and Nehru were so much interested in separating Kashmir from Pakistan? Already we are provided with the answer. They thought, Kashmir being a strategically important area, without which Pakistan would always remain vulnerable to India geographicaly . It was due to this importance that Qaidi Azam called Kashmir the jugular vein of Pakistan. Moreover, the retaining of Kashmir by India was meant to give India a dominant position in the sub-continent. What the leaders of Hindu Congress like Acharia Korplani and Krishna Menon wrote to
Kashmiris outside their gutted homes