IUAM CONSIDERING RUSSIAN MOVE FOR DIRECT TALKS
By Ghani Jafar
The Supreme Council of the Islamic Unity of Afghan Mujahideen {IUAM) is considering soundings received from the Soviet Union that it is willing to enter into direct talks with the Peshawar-based seven party alliance to the exclusion . of the Kabul administration. Engineer Gulbadin Hikmatyar disclosed this to ‘The Pakistan Times’ in the course of an
exclusive hourlong interx’iew in Peshawar,
The leader of the Hizb-lslami Afghanistan said that no decision in this regard had yet been taken by the IUAM Supreme Council He expressed his confidence that the Soviets would ultimately concede "the reality” that any format of negotiations which includes the Kabul administration and does
not have the Mujahideen as a “direct and principal party", remains ineffective in resolving the Afghan issue.
He said it was his understanding that any sort of parleys on Afghanistan which had the Kabul regime as a party, would "deepen the crisis". "Unless Moscow washes its hands of the Kabul regime, this kind of dialogue will be useless," he aded.
Mr. Gulbadin Hikmatyar said that if Moscow persisted in the involvement of the Najib regime in any negotiations on Afghanistan, the current crisis would not be abate. He further said that it was immaterial if such a dialogue involving the Kabul regime was held between the four "socalled signatories" to the Geneva Accord, or with any other composition.
He felt that the Pakistan Foreign Office taken a "very appropriate" decision in rejecting the proposal made last month by Mr. Abdul Wakil, Foreign Minister of the Kabul regime, for the convening of a meeting of Foreign Ministers of the four signatory countries to the Geneva Accord to discuss the Accords implementation.
When Mr. Hikmatyar's attention was drawn to proposal made by the Soviet Foreign Minister, Mr. Secretary-General for him to call a meeting of the five permanent members of the U N. Security Council, together with Pakistan and the Kabul administration, the Mujahideen leader reiterated his position that “any negotiations that involved the Kabul regime would be fruitless".
He recalled that even at the
The Mujahideen Monthly
11
November 1988