The Mujahideen , Apr ill May, 1990

No Escape From Election
By Shahpur Afghan
A. lthough the method of formation of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) did not reflect the aspirations of the sober elements of Afghanistan, it was accepted as a possible temporary method of solving the leadership crisis one year ago. This optimism was based on the declared purposes of the AIG of (1) transferring the central structure of the AIG to the interior of Afghanistan and (2) holding free and fair elections among the Afghans residing in Pakistan, Iran, and the liberated Afghan territories, so as to form an Islamic government to start the journey afresh. Alas! thesegoalsdid not materialize.
It is apparent that some Afghan elements are afraid of free elections because they want to prolong their undemocratic existence in the form of the AIG. They desire to remain in power through an arrangement which was meant to be temporary,as its very name,
AIG, indicates. These power-hungry and vested interests are employing various means to veil their unconstitutional intentions.
For instance, they have encouraged anti-Islamic and anti-Afghan forces to malign true Mujahideen. By such means, they have caused irreparable losses to the cause of the Mujahideen, and they have compelled the Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan (HIA), an important and powerful organization, to suspend its membership in the AIG as a protest against AIG’s failure to fulfil the promise of elections. The head of the HIA Eng. Hekmatyar has now gone to the extent of withdrawing his party from membership in the AIG, which he rightly regards as
In Islam, power lies in the consent of the people. A leader’s legitimacy and authority must be obtained from his own people and cannot be begged from foreign powers.
an unrepresentative body and not reflecting the wishes of the Afghan nation.
The stand of the HIA for elections to determine an Islamic government in Afghanistan is undeniably an
Islamic and democratic one. PirGailani Afandi, Maulawi Mansoor, and the Iran-based Afghans, in addition to all of the leaders of the Pakistan-based Mujahideen parties outside of the AIG, have given their support to this principle. So, what “reasons” does the AIG give to continue postponing elections?
Some of the leaders say that holding elections in the refugee camps and liberated Afghan territories is impossible. But if distribution of food items in the camps among millions of refugees is manageable, how can holding of polls be termed unmanageable?
Similarly, if running the administration in vast liberated areas can be made possible, the inability to administer polls there is beyond comprehension.
Some Afghan leaders claim that elections are an un-Islamic practice. The question should be raised as to what methods such leaders have employed to gain the leadership of their organizations. If they have not used election, have they reached a leadership position by methods of coercion or disregard to the opinion of others in their parties? These methods are clearly un-Islamic.
Some leaders say that, rather than bestowing the right to vote on the common man, Islam makes it the exclusive domain of some select knowledgeables. On the contrary, the knowledgeables, the scholars of Islam, whom we respect greatly, agree that every Muslim is a vicegerent of Allah on the earth, and Islam is the guarantor of his fundamental rights. For a Muslim leader to deprive a Muslim people of the right to
page 21