those prisoners who repent over their past and offer loyalty to the puppet government; wheras today all of our country has been turned into a horrifying prison. Each military garrison is a prison. Every village of the occupied areas is a prison. Every office is a prison. Each town is a prision and all of our people are in the prison. As long as the Russians are in Afghanistan, whole of our country will remain a prison. The sun of independence will not rise unless the Russians withdraw their forces from Afghanistan, and our people will not relish the joy of liberty. The puppet government in Kabul had better open the gates of the military garrisons and barracks of the so-called Afghan Army and release those prisoners who have been forcibly conscripted to the army service after being hunted our in the towns and villages by the Russian army. They are used, contrary to their wishes, against the Mujahideen in the battlefield. Those prisoners-cum-soldiers do not want to fight against their nation, They do not want to spill the blood of their brothers and resent to kill their own people at the behest of alien forces.
The puppet regime should defuse all the mines planted around the basses, posts and camps of so-called Afghan Army meant to reduce the desertion rate. They should set the Afghan Army free and then see if they aim their guns at the Russians or Majahideen and whom do they side with? Isn't the escape of brave Afghan soldiers from their barracks, camps and posts in large scale in spite of all possible security measures, abundant proof that all these garrision and camps are prisons and jails? The barracks, posts, military camps are all jails. AH the cities and towns in the occupied areas which are surrounded by security belts are all in all prisons, as people are not permitted free movements in the cities, the houses of innocent people are broken into by the Russian and agent forces and their dignity and privacy transgressed. Suffocation and fear prevail all around-fear of being tortured and persecuted at the hands of KHAD and KGB agents, fear of forcible entry to one's house, fear of conscription of one's
sons to be used in a disgusting war aginst their own fellow Muslim.
General Najib! Tell me what role does the PD PA (Communist Party) play in the affairs of Afghanistan? What can this party do without instructions and orders from the Russian masters? On which authority can you offer peace, ceasefire and reconciliation? Swear in the name of Lenin and Babrek, your mentor, don't you see your fate similar to that of Tarake, Amin and Babrek and as horrible as theirs?
Tel me if you were taken into confidence about the recent withdrawal of the six regiments of the Russian forces whom you saluted and profusely garlanded? Did you or any of your ministers know about the withdrawal of these six regiments until Gorbachev announced it in Veladivastok? Tell me the truth, if Gorbachev’s announcement was not shoking to you when you heard it first? Wasn't your recent visit to Moscow following the one made by the Foreign Secretary of Pakistan, in which you were so hurriedly summoned like an ordinary Soviet embassy official, unexpected to you? Did you know up to the last mement of your audience with Gorbachev along with your Prime Minister, Defence Minister, Foreign Minister and other important ministers, what were you summoned for? Weren't you and your colleagues' hearts throbing in anxiety that you would meet the fate of your predecessors, particularly when you noticed that a person with the status of Foreign Minister came to receive you at the Moscow airport?
The head of government, General Secretary of the Commuist Party of Afghanistan and the most important members of his cabinet visit a friendly country but nobody else than the Foreign Minister should come to receive them at the Moscow airport.
And when the Soviet Foreign Minister come to Afghanistan he is received by Najib and the most important members of his cabinet at the airport
General Najib addresses the A fghan refugees and invites them to return to their
The Mujahideen Monthly
9
Jan - Feb 1987