(Read these verses and the verses following in conjunction with their commentary by A. Yusuf Ali)
He Allah the One and Only, is the author of all existence; He is our Creator, to Him webelong and to Him is our return, And He is more than mere author and creator: He is also the “Rabb” of his creation and His creatures; and “Rabb” according to the great authority on the Holy Qur’ an. Imam Raghib, in Arabic it signifies “Thecherisher, sustainer and fosterer of a thing in such a manner after another until itreaches its goal of completion and perfection.”
“Thus, Allah being the “Rabb ul-Alamin,” the “Rabb of the worlds,” as He is called in the opening chapter of the holy Qur’an and of all of us, whom He created.” No matter to which race,nation, tribe or parentage we may belong, for He created us all alike, as the Holy Qur’an further elucidates in numerous verses and words, such as:
"Andmankind is naught but a single nation."
(Holy Qur’an 2:213)
We are all the children of Adam, and Adam was made of dust. Here dawned the idea for the first time in human history that all men have a common origin, because we belong to Allah, all and sundry and to Whom is our ultimate return. The whole of humanity is but one family, one nation, and should, ideally, form one fraternity, the universal brotherhood of man.
The differences of color and languages, of build and features are not regarded as differences of quality, or as marks or degrees of excellence, but as an expression of the diversity in nature”
Says the Holy Qur’an:
"And among His Signs is this that He created you from dust: And then, behold, ye are men scattered {far and wide)"
"And among His Signs is the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the variations and diversity of your tongues andyour color; verily in that are Signs for those who know."
(Holy Qur’ an 30:22)
Allama Yusuf Ali, commenting on this verse, remarks: “All mankind were
I The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991	|
created of a single pair of parents; yet they had spread to different languages and different shades of complexions. They feel in the same way, and are equally underGod’s care”.
Whatever the country in which a people lives, whatever the language they speak, whatever the color of their skin, they are recognized as one family, living under one roof—the canpoy of heaven, scattered, but of common origin:
Says the Holy Qur’an:
"O mankind! reverenceyour Guardian-Lord, who created you from a single person, created, of like nature, his male, and from them twain scattered (like seeds) countless men and women."	(Holy Qur’an 4:1)
Among the measures introduced by the Holy Prophet of Islam to level the differences of rank and of race among his steadily grow ing community, perhaps prayer ought to be mentioned in particular. Five times a day the Muslims meet together for prayer. Among the first Muslims were members of the noblest Arab families as well as a good number of negro slaves. At prayers they all stood shoulder to shoulder before the Almighty, and when, in the further course of prayer, they prostrated before their Lord, it might well have been that the head of anoble Arab praying in a row behind a negro slave rested at the latter’s feet. In prayer and in the company of the Holy Prophet no differences of status was recognized between the two.
Unity in Prayers
From standing side by side in the rank of prayer, the next step was a mere corollary; they mingled freely on terms of perfect equality on all other occasions. Service to God was thus the door through which the fraternization of humanity was effected...The negro slaves and the noble Arabs were made to meet together on terms of equality in prayer and in religious gatherings. It was thus impressed on their minds, that they were all equal before God, and life once moulded on these lines led to the natural consequence that the negro slaves and the Arab nobility enjoyed equal status in society.
In the first Muslim community a negro slave, Bilal, was chosen by the Holy Prophet himself to deliver the “Adhan”, the call to prayers, while theHoly Prophet himself was the “Imam” or the two office-bearers of the Mosque, the Holy Prophet himself, of noble blood and birth, was one, the other being Bilal, a negro.
Page 39 r_
In his famous oration, Which he delivered on the occasion of his “Farewell Pilgrimage,” his last pilgrimage before he closed his eyes forever, the Holy Prophet reaffirmed and re-stated theprincipleof equality and brotherhood of man in Islam, thus bequeathing it as a sacred legacy to generation after generation of Muslims after him until thepresentday, Letmequote from the oration.
“Ye people! Listen to my words, for I know not whether another year will be vouchsafed to me after this year to find myself amongst you at this place.”
“Your lives and property are sacred and inviolable amongst one another until ye appear before the Lord....and remember, yet shall have to appear before your Lord Who shall demand from you an account of all your wives, and your wives have rights over you....remain always faithful to the trust reposed in you.”
“Ye people, listen to my words and understand them, know ye that all Muslim are brothers unto one another, Ye are one brotherhood.”
“All men are equal in Islam. The Arab has no superiority over the non-Arab, nor does the non-Arab have superiority over the Arab, save in the fear of God."
The the Holy Prophet’s bequest was heeded and the example set by him was followed by subsequent generations of Muslims throughout the ages and history, it is impossible for me within limits of the lime allotted to me for this talk to render a detailed, much less a comprehensive, account of all such fact and incidents which afford proof of my assertion. I can only quote some of them, and I may be permitted to do so at random.
One of the acid tests of unrestrained and unrestricted inter-racial relations are inter-racial marriages. That such marriages were never frowned upon by Muslims is borne out by the fact that Arasside as well as of later dynasties, had Turkish, Greek or even negro mothers.
On the other hand, social rank or high office did not bestow upon the bearer special privileges before the law and certainly did not entitle him to ill-treat a brother Muslim with impunity.
But perhaps one of the most instructive examples of the policy of Islam