The Mujahideen, September, 1991
m Page 09 wmrnmm
crumble on their subjects without prior notification. The whole process after this abrupt but natural termination is again reinitiated from the beginning and everything continues endlessly in a circle.
The merits therefore that can be found in creating a movement that implants its adherents with a living way of life are too numerous to count here.
(1) The existing culture of vanity is practically confronted without exposing the developing embrayonic organization to unnecessary brutal governmental reprisals.
(ii)	The movement puts its own alternative into a selected and limited experimentation. Here opportunities are created for corrections and new initiatives, before ever striving with all available forces at the prospect of its becoming the paramount system in the community.
(iii)	Members of such a movement would have unconsciously been trained so much to be future operators of a new socio-political and economico-ideological programmes.
(iv)	Finally the achievement of each of the major goals become not only easier but gives enough room for eternal perpetuation.
For our own purpose here therefore, we can conclude that for a true Islamic revolutionary accomplishment a total break from the past and existing culture of vanity is a must.
Unfortunately, most of the so-called radical fundamentalist organizations and their twin-sisters of conservative traditional religionists, really want to change the very system, they themselves are not prepared to permanently break away from. This is in addition to the
Surrendering at last:- Communist fighters giving themselves up to the Mujahideen
fact that they have no intrinsic momentum to generate and maintain a new and distinctive way of life as an acceptable alternative.
These various Muslim militant associations are entrenched though unconsciously in the oppressive past of their individual communities and are embedded with traditional and anti-progrossive institutions of the present monarchial, totalitarian or psedo-democratic states. The result is predictable. 11 is a road that leads into blind alleys of failures, frustrations, and chaos. Even if there appears rays of victory and accomplishment now or later, the so-called new Muslim governments which eventually might be formed will finally
pattern of the movement from the retrogressive traces of the past and unwanted set-up of conservative traditional community, anew living culture that is unique in message and goals, viable in manifestation and dynamic to perpetuate itself must be adopted from the word go by the group. This is to say that the movement should instead of all unnecessary engagements in secondary and irrelevant projects must concentrate on how to be a self independent group that can exist and progress without the oppressors and their system. In other words it must from the onset, has to be a community, within a community or rather a state within another.
To emphasize this point further, the immediate objective therefore for a pragmatic Islamic revolutionary group is to create its own system that even if mirco in scope and operation but carries within its operational circumference great potentiality and dynamism that would eventually become the global or national culture in the future.
To emphasize this point further, the immediate objective therefore for a pragmatic Islamic revolutionary group is to create its own system that even if mirco in scope and operation but carries within its operational circumference great potentiality and dynamism that would eventually become the global or national culture in the future. These various Muslim militant associations are entrenched though unconsciously in the oppressive past of their individual communities and are embedded with traditional and anti-progrossive institutions of the present monarchial, totalitarian or psedo-democratic states. The result is predictable. It is a road that leads into blind alleys of failures, frustrations, and chaos.