Commander Sayed Jamal Executed
Without Fair Trial
Throughout the Afghan Jihad, the Kabul regime has utilized proxies, bribes, and weapons to sow the seeds of enmity between Mujahideen commanders. As a consequence, local clashes between commanders of various parties unfortunately occur from time to time. The outside world, unaware of such complicated and treacherous plots, often sees such local clashes as if they had occurred between parties on the national level.
One example has been clash between Ahmed Shah Masoud, a commander of the Jamiat-i-lslami, and Sayed Jamal of the Hezb-i-lslami. Over the past several years conflicts have arisen between , these two commanders, spurred by Communist plots and double-dealing, and Mujahideen from both sides have lost their lives. The incident in Takhar Province, which was one of a chain of local incidences occurring between these two commanders, was highly publicized world-wide as a serious rift in Mujahideen unity. An objective account has yet to be confirmed, but one version is that on July 9, 1989, four commanders and five Mujahideen of the Jamiat-i-lslami died at the hand of men from Sayed Jamal's front who believed that the Commanders were plotting an attack on the Hezbi front. Using bribes, .and in collusion with Najib’s local militia, Masoud captured Jamal and some associates in August. Following the Takhar incident, the chief of the Hezb-i-lslami, Mr. Hekmatyar asked for a group of impartial persons to investigate the incident and to arrive at a verdict which should be binding to both parties. A committee made up of
internationally renowned Muslim scholars was appointed and made their investigation. However, before the committee could deliberate and announce its verdict, Masoud, who had Sayed Jamal in his custody, executed him on December 16, 1989. To protest this execution without a legitimate trial, Eng. G. Hekmatyar called a press conference on January 1, 1990.
At the conference, Eng. G. Hekmatyar, clarified that nine
Mujahideen of the Jamiat were killed at Farkhar in Takhar Province this past summer, although the Kabul regime media and anti-Mujahideen foreign press were propagating that 30 - 38 people were killed. He reiterated his demand for the constitution of an independent tribunal or impartial Shariat Court comprising all the seven Mujahideen groups to investigate the Takhar incident as well as the hanging to death unilaterally of four Hezb people by a Jamiat commander and to punish the responsible persons according to Islamic jurisprudence.
He said that both Hezb and Jamiat had reached a written agreement for solving their conflicts through a tribunal but later the Jamiat chief in an interview said that the
Takhar incident was not included in the agreement. He categorically said that his party did not believe in the politics of revenge and that issues that occurred between his party and Jamiat should be solved through negotiations so that their common enemy should not take advantage of the situation. He said that a letter had been written by him to Jamiat-i-lslami Chief Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani in this regard but no reply had been received so far.
Eng. G. Hekmatyar said that to avoid any untoward incident he was asking the Mujahideen of the Jamiat-i-lslami not to use the areas under the command of the Hezb-i-lslami until the decision of the court regarding the Takhar incident.
26
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990