The Situation In Kabul Today
By M Qureshi
Recently in Peshawar there have been many reports about the situation inside Kabul. One type oi report is made by journalists who have been invited by the puppet government of Afghanistan. Another type of report is brought by the refugees who are fleeing from Afghanistan or the occasional pilot who defects with his plane or helicopter.
The following is a situation report on Kabul gleaned from the local Peshawar newspapers and the refugee contacts available.
Khad police officers in the Khad Brigade and also the Sarandoy Combat Force. The latter is a fanatical Communist unit from the Interior Ministry who wear brown shirts and have no combat experience.
This year over 20 Afghan general have been killed in Mujahideen attacks or executed in government purges, thus depleting the
army high command. Others have defected, like General Dost Mohammad of Zaranj and Maulvi Mohammad Abrah
out of reach for the poor. According to the latest reports from refugees, lamb is 1000 Af/kg, rice is 2300 Af/7kg, wheat is 1200 Af/7kg and sugar is 400 Af/kg.
While the government banks still exchange Afghanis at a 30-year-old rate of 55 Afs per US dollar for foreign diplomats, other banks are trading 400 Afs/$ and the rate in the Kabul bazaar is reported as 525 Afs/$. In Peshawar it is about 880 Afs/$. A Kabul Finance Ministry official is reported to have said in December 1989 that "the bazaar has gone quite mad and if it continues, the Afghani currency will be nothing but shreds of paper".
A refugee who arrived last month said that Kabul City has no electricity, so many of the people are using kerosene or wood for cooking and heating. Fuel is in short supply and prohibitively expensive. Wood is 70 Af/kg and kerosene is 1000 Af/5L while
children coming from Afghanistan to the refugee camps
Military
Just like Genghis Khan in days of old left 1000 men to guard his prize of Afghanistan, so also the Soviets have reportedly left 1000 commandos to protect Kabul. This is in additional to the 300 military advisors and the missile crews in charge of the Scuds, to say nothing of the pilots living in the Soviet Embassy or flying across the border to give protection to their convoys.
The Afghans protecting Kabul are organized into three paramilitary forces. The Special Guard is a unit of
10,000	veterans, including some former
of Ghor who took thdir men and material over to the resistance side with them. Major General Muhammad Faruq Zarif, commander of puppet Najib’s personal security unit, defected to Pakistan in August. He said the spirit was low in the secret police as well as the army and that Najib no longer trusted the military except for his own Special Guard of party fanatics. In December, 127 Khalqi soldiers and officers were arrested, including 11 generals, ostensibly for plotting a coup.
Economics
The price of food in Kabul has doubled since October putting supplies
gasoline is 2000 Af/5L. Every day thousands of people stand in line at gas stations,, many of them are children nearly frozen to death, and often they would have to wait until midnight, or fuel would not be available at all.
A U.N. report told the story of one woman who was distrought after rece ving a six pound bag of flour through a United Nations program. She said she didnl know how she'd be able to cook it!
Of course, those who have connections with the Communist government are supplied with food and necessities first. There are reports that
Mujahideen Monthiy/January 1990
21