Dr. Wali, A Commander Whose Feats will be Remembered for Good /
Dr Mohammad Wali s/o Cok Mohammad Ibrahim Naseri was born in 1956 in a devout family at Mirwais Maidan, Kabul city.
From his early childhood, Dr Wali was taught religious subjects by his parents.
He was admitted to the Kart-iMamoreen Elementary School when he was six years old.
Aafter a year he was transferred to the Mirwais Hotaki School and later was admitted in the French speaking Estiqlal High Scnool.
After his secondary level he joined the Kabul Cadet School and upon getting his baccal aureate joined the Military University in Kabul and chose to study medicine. He continued his medical studies up to the fifth year at the Nengarhar Medical College.
When Taraki took over, as head of a marxist government in a coup in 1978, Dr Waii started an organized and systematic struggle against the regime.
He quit his education as a medical student and began to work with the secret cells of the Mujahideen j of Hezb-i-lslami in Kabul city and wholeheartedly, worked with these cells in pursuance of his struggle against Daoud's .regime.
He established relations with Col. Azim in Kabul and devotedly worked with him day anJ night until his activities were disclosed to the athe.st* government. He had to take refuge in Pakistan after his close associates Coi. Azim Khan and Serio Captain Shir Agha were executed in Dec. 1978.
Upon his arrival in Peshawar he was sent to Afghanistan as medical doctor to the Mangal Front in Paktia province under the command of Ehsanullah Khan.
In the Spring of 1979 Dr Wali was appointed as the commander of a Mujahideen group in the Doba— ndi and Charkh areas of Logar province and continued his Jehad and Da'wa work with fervent enthusiasm.
In 1980 he once again went to the Mohammad Agha district as in charge of the Mohammad Agha distric. He conducted his duties with valour and adroitness.
In 1981 he was seriously wounded while commanding the Mujahideen in a battle against the Russians.
When recovered he was appointed as military commander of the Mohammad Agha district of Logar province in 1982.
the GenerafLomm-of Logar pre	fie
y of the Mohammad Mujahid|H hieraichgr continued this K?task ■at 11 :50
addit^^H jiandaSiF^
rank in PersnH
ns mar
a m on September 22, 1985 in a face to face fighting against the Russians.
Dr Wali took part in more than 100 operations against the Russian and Karmal forces during his seven years armed struggle and inflicted heavy casualties and equipment losses on the enemy.
Dr. Wali's father. Col. Mohammad Ibrahim and his uncle Col. Shah Wali, were imprisoned for a long time because of Dr Wali's activities as an avowed and determined Mujahid Commander in Logar province.
His brother Mohammad Farooq a student at Ghazi High School in Kabul and his cousins senior Capt. Mohammad Alam Khan and Mohammad Ismail were executed in 1982 by the puppet regime.
Dr Wali had several other cousins who were martyred Lt. Col. Mohammad Sidiq was martyred in Jehad in Kunar province in 1982 and Toryalai was martyred in 1984 at the Khandaq Fronts of the Logar province.
Two of his maternal uncles, Maulvi Abdul Ghani and Major Manan, were executed at the Pul-i-Charkhi jail in 1982 and 1983 respectively.