lhal is involved in politics. The training of children is seen weightier than taking active role in politics. The ability to control grown up children that is boys and girls is the backbone of good citizenship. The role of women as educators is very important since the way children are brought up is the way they will live and look in the society.
In the light of this Mrs B Kunambi said:
“For a Christian mother, the role of an educator is even more important as the mother has the best opportunity to instil into the child all the good concepts of Christianity at this early and most important stage of character formation -The children of today arc the nation of tomorrow.” 20
The involvement of women in politics is also seen as a sort of winning contract of burden and this is summed up in die following statement.
“The right of women to vote is crucial to her winning a place under the sun.” 21
r-----------------.■ =-
POSITION OF WOMEN I 1	JUDAISM
In Judaism women arc seen as being under the curses of the Creator God due to the original sin caused upon humanity by the first woman. There is an assertion which really degrade the dignity of women, and this is the assertion which says thus:
“Off the women came the beginning of sin and through her we all die.” 22
Women arc considered to be creatures not worthy of honour but as creatures that could be deservedly subjected to any amount of insults and reduced to the position of mere chattel in the house.
(To he continued)
The Mujahideen, September ,1991	Page	39
on_
SOPHISTICATED JAHILIYYAH
In taking up a delicate issue as the "position of women in Prc-Islamic
Arabia" there arc two or three points to be explained further:-
.1 . '
A- The difference between Prc-Islamic Jahiliyyah way and other non-Islamic cultures in the past and now is never a fundamental one but question of magnitude. As women were taken as objects of baser passions in Prc-Islamic days, so also arc they today in the so-called modem world of pornography, bot-adverts and arousing shows. The idea of "WOMEN LIB" is rather an activator and a confirmation than a liberation and negation.
B- The present Anglo-Saxon civilization of today, if traced properly back, has its origin in Pre-Renaissance Christian Europe. The latter in turn is studdely rooted in the Pagan culture of the Romans.
Christianity in trying to win more converts not only compromised the basic tenets of Aposiolic faith but abandoned many other fundaments. From this mixed bag of Greek philosophy, Roman paganism rises the Sophisticated Jahiliyyah of the West.	ABUABDUR-RAHMAN
I	NOTES AND REFERENCES ON THE FIRST PART	1
m		M
1-	Fida Hussain Malik Wives of the Holy Prophet Muhammad (PBOH) Taj Company Turkman Gate Dehli pagel3.
2-	Ibidpage 13.
3-	Ali Abdullah Yusuf: The Holy Quran Text Translations and
Commentaries fifth edition. Islamic Foundation 1975 commentary	No.	5.
4-	Nazhat Afzah and K. Ahmad: The position of Women in Islam Anis Ahmad 1969 page 20
5-	The Holy Bible Revised Standard Edition R. S. U. Collins: Genesis Chapter 3 verse 12
6-	Ibid chapter 3 verses 14-15.
7-	Nazhat Afzah K. Ahmad Opcit page 8
8-	The Bible: Luke chapter 23 verses 29
9-	Ibid Corinthians chapter 7 versel
10-	Ibid chapter 7 verse 27
11-	Nazhat Afzah and	K.	Ahmad	opcit	page 19
12-	Ibid page 20
13-	Ibid page 21
14-	The Bible: Genesis chapter 1	verse	27
15-	Murtada Mutahari: The Rights of Women In Islam Translation 1st edition page 316
16 Nazhat Afzah and K. Ahmad opcit page 24
17-	Alvard shorter African Christian Spirituality Macmillan
Publishing Company Incorpration	New	York	page	151.
18-	Ibid page 154
19-	Paul K.Jewtt The ordination of Women William B. E. publishing
Company New York 1980	page	84
20-	Alvard shorter opcit page 153
21-	Paul K. Jewett opcit page 90
22-	N. Ahmad and K. Ahmad opcit page 16.