The opening of
Jihad
University
Hezbi-lslami Afghanistan has recently established a Jihad University here in Peshawar. The University is comprised of five colleges of which the Education and Medical Colleges have been put into operation in the current year.
The Medical College of Jihad University:
The Medical College (or Faculty) of Jihad University opened in Hayatabad, Peshawar, on September 2, 1989, with the objective of providing an opportunity to those Muslims and Mujahid Afghan students who have been deprived of the rights of higher studies due to the coming into power of the Russian-installed regime and the Russian invasion. The graduates are expected to fill the vacancies of the large number of medical doctors who have been martyred or forced to seek refugee in other countries. They will serve as doctors in hospitals, clinics, and medical institutions in their own provinces. Some may go abroad so they can return as specialists or professors.
It was expected that Kabul University medical students would be able to continue the seven-year course that they had started before leaving Afghanistan. The first four classes were opened with the same subjects and schedule as in Kabul and similarly called PCB, First Year, Second Year, and Third Year. An admissions test was required and a total of 300 students were given admission. Ninety-five per cent of the students have room and board at the college, and 200 rupees pocket money is paid in addition.
Most of the professors were professors, associate professors, or lecturers at Kabul or Nangrahar Universities and have established their own curriculum based on the materials available to them,incorporating their Afghan university materials and their experiences on the Jihad front. Most of them teach in Pushto, similar to the Nangrahar Medical School in Afghanistan.
The College so far has four buildings with a total of 30 rooms where the "live in" students, administrative and academic offices, labs and departments are accommodated. In addition to this, three temporary iron sheet classrooms and a dining room have been erected in the yards of two buildings. The practical or clinical work is centered around two medical and surgical hospitals in Shamshatu, Nasratmina, each with an 80-bed capacity.
We are happy to report the opening of the Colleges of Medicine
and Education at the new Jihad University in Peshawar to begin to replace the expert manpower lost during the past ten years of Jihad and emigration.
Loya Jirga No Substitute for Elections
For peace in Afghanistan there must be a government that has the "consent of the governed". It is obvious that every person with a gun must consent to the government in order to stop the fighting. The government must somehow give representation or voice to everyone, yet come up with one leader, and at the same time protect the rights of the minorities.
A Loya Jirga traditionally consists of tribal chiefs or other influential persons chosen by the king or party in power. A Loya Jirga held in Kabul constituted of loyal PDPA members chosen by Najib does not provide a mechanism of obtaining the consent of the governed in Afghanistan.
The h|ezb-i-lslami supports popular election of a Shura Council which would then choose a government and formulate a constitution. In August 1989 Eng. G. Hekmatyar, chief of the Hezb-i-lslami, announced suspension of the participation of his party in the IIGA until elections were held. He said that the suspension is to persuade our brother^ in the IIGA to respect their previous promises and agreements. All have previously accepted that it is only by elections and the establishment of a council repjesenting the whole nation that outside interference can be restrained.
We must prevent a situation
where any country could take this or that person or organization into its hand and portray them as representatives of our nation and then make its recognition conditional on the giving of sensitive posts to these persons of its heart's desire. Furthermore, it is only, through elections that we can restrain internal clashes and bestow strength upon the government. At the same time, we shall not withhold any sacrifices in the way of safeguarding unity among the Mujahideen.
From the first days of the IIGA, Eng. Hekmatyar has been seriously committed to the plan for elections. On his trip to the Far East he said, "we have named our government interim to emphasize our decision to hold elections within four months to establish a council which will draft and approve a constitution for the country.
Former Minister Defects.
A former Afghan diplomat Pacha Gul Wafadar who served as Minister both in the late President Sardar Daoud's Cabinet and in Prime Minister Dr. Hassan Sharq's Cabinet has defected to the Hezbi-lslami. Under Daoud he was also assigned at different times as Ambassador to Bulgaria and to Libya, and he became Ambassador to india for the PDPA. After the Soviet invasion in 1979, he was summoned back to Kabul and started a private business. When a bomb exploded in his store, killing a Soviet, he was put in prison for a year and a half. Wafadar became a Minister for Civil Aviation last year in Dr. Hassan Sharq’s Cabinet when non-PDPA people were inducted into the Government. He was, however, dropped from the Cabinet along with Dr. Sharq eight months later when puppet Najib declared an "emergency" in Afghanistan. Hekmatyar commended him for his courage in announcing his defection, especially since he had left some of his family behind.
24
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990