| m	77* Mujahideen, October! November, 1991	:;	U
[By: Stayed Anwar *Nasr"^

Fighting between Mujahideen and Kabul regime forces have been reported from different provinces of Afghanistan in which Mujahideen have claimed victories at different battle-fronts.



October, 1:
Gardez Flghtteg
The Mujahideen were making hectic efforts for fortifying their positions in the newly captured areas around Gardez and enforced their supplies, reports Afghan News Agency. In their attack mujahideen captured 26 security posts, a number of regime’s tanks, and other mili tars1 bases of strategic importance.
Heavy bombardment on the Mujahideen positions around Gardez especially on the Zurmat District were reported. Around 12 Mujahideen were reportedly
martyred in the continuous air raids and Scud attacks. The Mujahideen are reported to have killed or injured dozens of regime’s soldiers in the two days fighting. Severe bombings of die regime Jet l ighters continued over Mujahideen positions around the garrison. The regime bombers dropped cluster and parachute bombs and bobby traps around the Gardez city to disrupt Mujahideen movements. The bobby traps are aimed at stopping Mujahideen entries into the city on the one hand, and hindering regime officials surrender to the Mujahideen on the other. Meanwhile the Mujahideen are working quickly to capture the city before the snow falls. Despite the senever winter ahead they are resolved to continue the siege of Gardez.
October, 2:
Nine tanks II trucks destroyed
Latest reports from Laghman speak of fierce battle between Mujahideen and the communist regime forces at Mehtarlam, the capital of the province, reports (ANA). According to a wireless message received by ANA the Mujahideen killed 70 regime personnel, destroyed nine tanks and eleven military trucks and set ablaze an ammunition dump. The capital of Laghman Province Came as the second target of the Mujahideen after launching the ground offensive on Gardez on September 30.
Forward they march: The Mujahideen are more determined than ever to defeat all *	 ^____________ international	counspiracies
October, 2:
Logar-Gardez highway dosed
Mujahideen closed the Logar-Gardez highway aft era Kotal for all sorts of traffic to disrupt any communist regime re-inforcements to the besieged military garrison of Gardez. In the adjacent Logar