Afghan children, condemning the 7th anniversar of Russian invasion of Afghanistan in Islamabad
lateral ceasefire, Islam as state religion, national reconciliation and general amensty for all Afghans outside the country including the Mujahideen leaders. This is indeed a device to coax the Afghan nation into submission. Yet the Afghan Mujahideen leaders have a common stand and they have declared that they would never share power with communists in Kabul. Instead they floated the idea of an interim government in order to take care of free and fair election as a prelude to establishing an Islamic regime in Afghanistan.
PROTEST STRIKE
Reports from Qanoahar say that after the announcement of the so-called ceasefire the Mujahideen controlling most of the city, called a protest on January 15 which was a complete success. Another interesting report has also trickled down to us, saying that 20 buses were seen containing what police described as village militiamen from different regions. Later the same men were presented on Kabul TV as the Mujahideen who had offered to lay down arms.
One Asian official has observed
that Gorbachev does want to end the Afghan war but he does not want to be branded as the one who lost it. He wants to maintain Superpower prestige and dictate the Kremlin terms to end the war. He faces a dilemma which accounts for the latest burst of diplomacy. Yet the Mujahideen say that accepting national reconciliation on Moscow-Kabul terms means an ignominous surrender.
Lately, the Russians have- concentrated on the Mujahideen routes: Parachinar and Mirari Shah are two important routes which link up about 17 provinces, Chitral, Spinbuldak in Qandahar and Islam Qala in Herat.
The undaunted Mujahideen have also stepped up their activities. Recently they have killed two puppet regime agents working under the cover of national reconciliation. One was killed in the Qundus province in northern Afghanistan bordering the Soviet Union, and the other, namely, Inayatullah, was killed with his son in Ningarhar province.
Apart from it, the car bomb explosion in Kabul near the Indian embassy, killing 4 and injuring 23 and causing damages to the
buildings and the car bomb explosion in Jalalabad, killing more than 30 people, speak about the Mujahideen activities right in the centre of enemy positions.
Gerosimov, an official of the Soviet Foreign Ministry said that there were 378 violations since the ceasefire was declared by Kabul on January 15. But Mr. Shevardnadze said in East Berlin there were about 500 ceasefire violations.
MOSCOW INSINCERE
There exists a strong evidence that the Russians' dependability is doubtful in announcing a unilateral ceasefire through their agent, Najib. Confirmed reports indicate that the daily shooting down of aircraft averages as one. The March report of Parwan indicates that in one single incidence one Su-24 and four helicopters were either shot or destroyed at Bagram.
Recently the Mujahideen destroyed five jets and nine helicopters at Qandahar airport. In the Khost incident,as reported by Mujahideen-sources, 15 Afghan army officers, 22 soldiers and six crew men were
The Mujahideen Monthly
33
Jan - Feb 1987