human civilization better than its predecessors.
Two: In the local or international struggle between different political systems and social traditions, the final champion would be that one that has the highest merit or in other words, the new ideology will surely be such that has benefited most from the success and failures of former leading civilizations.
Three: At any point in human cultural evolution, unavoidable socio-political and spiritual circumstances would
I The Mujahideen, July! / August, 1991	\
communal upheavals. These in turn would bring forth new societies thereby forcing human civilization to go further.
What we have said so far does not mean in the least that the historical stage would for ever be dominated by revolutionaries without the barons of oppression challenging them. The contrary is intended here. Greed, lust and outright wickedness, would of course create their philosophies, build their armies and employ the services of heartless, academic propagandists and irresponsible press manipulators to form their imaginary world of eternity.
....But the simple naturalinstinctin man that knows nothing but truth, freedom and justice would as a result of those oppressive social forces, rise upfrom the graveyard of denial and exploitation ,to destroy the fabulous glass-castte of imperialism. It is at this juncture that a new historical page is opened in human socio-political, spirituo-economic and academic developments ....and by that humanity as a unit race has a life pattern that is strictly progressive and perpetual...
always create room for improvements. This apparent imperfection in any existing civilization becomes the railing point of revolutionaries. Hence every age would always produce its vanguards of fundamental changes.
If the above points are well understood, it will be easier to predict where else we could expect the next social upheavals or why should there be one here and not there. A revolutionary table could be formed where-in oppression manifesting itself in religious dogmatism, political monopoly, social injustice and economic exploitation would be seen as the reasons for bloody
But the simple natural instinct in man that knows nothing but truth, freedom and justice would as a result of those oppressive social forces, rise up from the graveyard of denial and exploitation to destroy the fabulous glass-castle of imperialism. It is at this j uncture that a new historical page is opened in human socio-political, spirituo-economic and academic developments in the temporal positive or negative versions. Then the whole process starts all over again and by that humanity as a unit race has a life pattern that is strictly progressive and perpetual.
It may sound paradoxical that
Page 46
in the world, colonialists and imperialists would naturally have their ways so as to create a revolutionary movement that would perform the triple task of destroying old oppression, advancing global cultural evolution and preparing the way for history to repeat itself.
In the bounded zones of places and extensive but well defined world of volumes, oppression can rule for decades if not centuries. Few men could usurp the rights of nations if not the entire human race for some time. This is possible through systematic as well as sophisticated jahiliyyah and mischief mongering on earth. We must however, not forget that this is a relative evil of space-limitation serving devotedly the permanence of a boundless time-goodness.
Without the tide of criminality once in any community, the necessity of strict maintenance of law and orders would never become imperative or appreciated. It is the evil deeds of callous emperors, despotic presidents and exploitative systems that make the struggle for justice and liberty more deserving. No matter what today presents, what is in the morrow is far more important. Don ’ t be surprised then if oppression controls the world as at now, it is equally an opportunity for faith, sanity, progress and peace to collect their forces together and extend the unbroken chain of human advancement.
This is the working structure of human sociological development since the first man appeared on this planet and since man first thought about himself as a member of a larger community. There will never be any fundamental changes in the natural order of things or in human developmental procedures. America or no America, imperialism or Fascism, the defeat of Nazism or the breakdown of communism, if Muslim activists reschedule their programmes to be more natural and hence perfectly Islamic, then the Muslims would play the next role of turning a new page in human sociological progress. ■ ■■ ■ ■ ■ * **