The Mujahideen , April/May, 1990 W
Eng. G. Hekmatyar lljlf reflects on the recent i|2 military uprisingjin|i||l Kabul and the solution to the Afghan
Eng. G. Hekmatyar, Amir of the Hezb-i-IsIami Afghanistan, provided his analysis of the March 6th military uprising and the future line of action against the Kabul regime in an interview with "the Mujahideen" in mid-April. He also responded to recent accusations oftheU.S.andthe A.I.G. The following is a summary of the interview statements by Br. Hekmatyar:
Concerning the March 6th incident in Kabul in which the Afghan Army officers declared their intent to join the Mujahideen and their people and to fight against a regime which is oppressing the nation, calling it a “coup d’etat” is not a proper interpretation. “Coup d’etat” is a word which is applied to an event where some army officers in order to assume power resort to a covert armed attempt against a government A “military uprising” would be a more accurate designation of the event, and we expect similar events in the near future, Insha-Allah.
All those officers who were afraid of joining the Mujahideen have been assured that they will not be persecuted after joining the Mujahideen. The way has been paved for those officers who are fed-up with the war, hold Gen. Najib responsible for the protraction of the war, do not want to cause more bloodshed,and intend to join their people. This is why we consider the recent uprising a starting point for similar incidents in the future.
This military uprising has provided many benefits to the Mujahideen. High-ranking officers and key elements of the Afghan Army in the
ground and air forces have joined hands with the Mujahideen in their action against the Najib regime. The military uprising still enjoys the support of the majority of the Afghan Army and has provided a good opportunity for the Mujahideen to penetrate the army ranks and establish their influence there.
The recent uprising was an unexpected incident for all. It disproved many of the superpowers’ calculations regarding the Afghan Jihad. From now on, neither can Communist Russia see any possibility for the survival of Najib’s rule nor can the Americans. From now on, neither can the Russians contemplate that the Mujahideen are not capable of overthrowing the puppet regime, nor can the western countries. Now it is an accepted fact that the Mujahideen are in possession of various means to overthrow Gen. Najib’s regime.
Concerning the replacement of Najib’s puppet regime with an alternative acceptable to the Mujahid forces, remains a precondition. We will not accept elections which are held under the auspices of the PDPA, during the rule of the PDPA, or with the participation of Najib or his party the PDPA. The election process should be supervised by an election commission which would be formed by the Mujahid forces and enjoys their consent If the necessity for supervision by an international delegation arises, and all the Jihad forces feel the necessity of it, then we prefer a delegation from the OIC.
Concerning the US propaganda against the HI A, it seems that subsequent to the “withdrawal” of the Soviet forces
from Afghanistan, the US has intensified their propaganda and diplomatic campaign to weaken and isolate the HI A. But the HI A is a reality which cannot be ignored, and time has proved that, our noble nation is standing by the HI A, and the endeavors against the HI A will never meet any success, Insha-Allah.
Recent allegations that the Mujahideen are involved in narcotics trafficking, are merely attempts to justify the US interference in our internal affairs and have no other basis. To really succeed in combating the drug menace, it would be more logical to intensify the war against narcotics and drug abuse in the US itself because it is the mental and physical “need” for narcotics which have created the international demand for them.
Concerning the AIG, they should have declared the dissolution of AIG a long time ago. Instead they have produced a situation where all their component parties have lost the potential for taking any initiative. Intensification of conflicts, issuing contradictory statement, and causing disgrace have been the souvenirs of the AIG. Were they operating as individual parties, they could have played a more constructive role in Afghan Affairs.
For instance, review the AIG’s position regarding the recent developments in our country. A significant inc ident takes place in Kabul, massive operations are launched against the puppet regime, the presidential palace and the communist party cencom headquarters are subjected to bombardments, but our friends do not know what happened there. Only after two days do they regain their consciousness and take a stand, a stand similar to that of Najib and Wali Khan.
Concerning alleged confidential documents about covert agreements between the Najib regime and the AIG leaders, Hekmatyar stated that, if we have received any, we would try our best to use them in choosing a right path for ourselves, and not for propaganda against others.
Page 5