Refugees who have come to Pakistan after unilateral ceasefire
of Maj'b.
Continued from 22
thing. They changed their rupees for Afghanis. But when they realised that Najib’s offers were meredy empty words, they stoppped. Nobody has gone back. Nothing has changed to make them return home. Not a single refugee has returned.
Q. Do you think the rally was a turning point?
A. Yes, that is right. Moreover, it proved another point. The pro-Russia element in Pakistan has repeatedly carried out propaganda that these refugees are here to stay for good. That even after the Afghan issue is resolved, they will not go back and pose problems for Pakistan. These same people are now writing in their own newspapers that the refugees have started going home and the Mujahideen are stopping them. I find it surprising how they can carry on with their propaganda when they have been proven wrong Actually, the innocent refugees were mistaken and when they real isect the truth, they themselves abandoned their plan to return. After such sacrifices, how can they surrender themselves to the Najib government? No one has left Pakistan. Not a single person has crossed the border.
Q. How would you react if Pakistan finds the Najib proposals, and especially a timeframe that is expected to be tabled at Geneva, acceptable?
A. Pakistan desires a solution to the crisis as soon as possible. But they are insisting on a Russian withdrawal. They want the ground prepared far the return of refugees. They want the cause — the presence of Russian troops — that forced the refugees to migrate, to be removed. The presence of Soviet troops in Afghanistan is also a threat to Pak-
istan. That is why they are demanding the withdrawal of Russian troops. I don't think Pakistan will agree to a solution that does not include the pullout of Soviet troops. If there is an agreement leading to the withdrawabof Russian troops, it would be acceptable to us. The problem will be solved. But if there is a gradual pullout in which the Russians withdraw accor ding to a timetable, then it would mean they have achieved on the negotiating table what they were unable to achieve in the battlefield. And we would not accept this.
Q. If the Soviets put forth a timetable, say six to twelve months, at the proximity talks for a phased withdrawal and Pakistan finds it acceptable, what would be your reaction?
A. We would respect any decision by the Pakistan side but we have decided to continue our struggle till the last Soviet soldier remains in Afghanistan. A phased withdrawal is not acceptable to us at all. We have expressed our willingness to
provide safe passage to Russian troops leaving Afghanistan but will continue our armed struggle against Russian troops present in Afghanistan. This is all we are willing and able to offer. You see. what the Russians aim to achieve through a phased withdrawal is to enable their puppet regime to stay in power, following a cessation of fighting. They will then seek the establishment of a coalition government in which the pro-Russian communists will also be a partner and their opponents will work under their control. Then they will attempt to strengthen this government, so much that its continuation is guaranteed. And when the possibility of destabilising this setup is gone they will withdraw over, what they term, a suitable timeframe. We think such proposals will never be acceptable to our nation as this will amount to a surrender before the enemy.
Gl Public pressure in favour of a settlement has gathered momentum in Pakistan after the Karachi clashes. where the involvement of
Tite Mujahideen Monthly
27
Jan - Feb 1987