He said that Mujahideen could easily capture the beleagured city of Qandahar. "But they do not want to repeat the tragedy of Kunduz", he told.
The decision was made to avoid high civilian casualties. "Kabul too is bound to fall to the Mujahideen but at the expense of lesser civilian casualties.”
“We have always tried that the non-combatant people may not be hurt," Hekmatyar said. “But we have no other alternative for exerting more pressure on military targets."
CORDOVEZ HAS NO RIGHT TO INTERFERE
On Oct. 24, Professor Burhanudeen Rabbani, current Chairman of the seven-party Afghan alliance of Afghan Mujahideen has taken exception to the recent statements of UN mediator on Afghanisatn, Mr. Diego Cordovez. He has described them as unwarranted and uncalled for and likely to damage his own reputation and that of the World Body.
In a message sent to the UN Secretary-General Mr. Perez de Cuellar the IUAM Chairman while appreciating his efforts to bring peace and security in the world, drew his attention towards recent statements of his
personal representative on the Afghanistan issue which were against his own impartiality and neutrality of the United Nations.
He said Mr. Cordovez "allows himself to make unwarranted and uncalled for remarks and to pass inaccurate and inappropriate judgement." He also allows himself to interference in the domestic affairs of Afghanistan by requesting certain individuals to form - or help to form - the future government of Afghanistan.
Prof. Rabbani also said that Mr Cordovez’s attack on the IUAM and on the Mujahideen
organisations which had fought against an invading superpower and had forced it to leave their country was very unfortunate. “We wonder how Mr. Cordovez who is an experienced diplomat can say things that are far from diplomatic etiquette", he said in his message. "We also wonder how Mr. Cordovez gives himself the right to interfere in our affairs while he himself has stated that only the Afghans can decide their future", he added.
The Mujahideen leader requested Mr. Cuellar to advise Mr. Cordovez to avoid making such statements in the future because it could not only damage his own reputation but would also be harmful to the prestige of the UN.
In his message he said "we know that Afghanistan is passing through a critical and historical stage. Afghan people fully realise the historical responsibility. Determination of our future is only the right of our people. A nation which could force a superpower out of its land can certainly establish a strong government after liberation. Work for reconstruction of its country, makes the country a centre of peace and security in the regin and in the world, and make positive contribution to the development of humanity."
The Mujahideen Monthly
17
November 1988