The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
Page 36
Telling lies, a routine matter for America
Annoyed by the support which the steadfast Mujahideen organizations extended to Iraqi Muslims against the indiscriminate, inhuman and unjust assault and bombardment by American and allied troops, the U.S. representative to the Afghan resistance has once again used very harsh, derogatory, and rather uncivilised language unbecoming of a diplomatagainstMujahideen leaders like Gulbaddin Hekmatyar, Professor Abdur Rasool Sayyaf and Prof. Burhannuddin Rabbani.
For the Afghan Mujahideen, it is not strange to listen to terms like terrorists or drug traffickers being used against them by American spokesmen. They understand the frustration Washington feels for herfailure to install a puppet leadership over the heads of the Afghan Mujahideen. A leadership which could serve their interests and designs.
The United States has done her best to assign a major role to the exmonarch, Zahir Shah, in Afghan politics, but has failed miserably due to the brave, courageous and intelligent leadership of the Afghan Mujahideen. The Afghan people will notallow an American puppet to replace Najib’s regime in Kabul.
The crux of the problem is that both America and Russia fear the rising force of Islam and they have decided to
President Saddam
work together to block the coming into power of the “Islamic fundamentalists” in any part of the world, including Afghanistan. In an interview with the BBC, Mr. Tomson termed Engineer Gulbaddin Hekmatyar, Prof. Sayyaf and Prof. Rabani as “terrorists”. Interestingly enough, this fact dawned on the American administration after more than
Commentary
By Israrullah Khan
a decade during which the heroes of the Afghan people were in fact these “terrorists”. Even the American public would laugh at such a silly U-tum of their leadership. But telling lies and betraying friends has become a routine matter in American foreign policy.
The Afghan Mujahideen were well aware that whatever little support the American administration was extending to the Afghan resistance was not because they were sympathetic to the cause of the Mujahideen butbecasue of U.S. fear of communism. Now that Russian troops have withdrawn from Afghanistan and drastic changes have taken place in Eastern Europe, the threat of communism has almost evaporated. The Western policy of “containment of communism” has now been replaced by the policy of “containment of Islam”. The United States sees Islam as the
single most dangerous threat to its imperialistic designs and this is why the drama of the Gulf War was staged, the military machine of Iraq destroyed, and the wealth of both Kuwait and Saudi Arabia was sucked to fill the pockets of the West The stage is now being set to force the weak Arab states to recognize Israel and accept its hegemony in the Middle East
The American administration should know that it could not deceive or force the Mujahideen to change their course or forget about the establishment of a true Islamic government in Afghanistan. The Afghan Mujahideen can continue their struggle without any outside help because the help of Almighty Allah is enough for them. If they were able to capture Khost without outside help, Kabul will also fall to them, Insha ‘Allah.
Mr. Tomson also announced that the “fundamentalist” groups in Afghanistan would receive no more U.S. aid because of their anti-American policies. The U.S. should know that the “Muslim fundamentalists” have never begged for American aid in the past and they will not beg for it in the future. But the U.S. should also realize that the Mujahideen have starting viewing Washington as the No.l enemy of the Afghan people and their independence.
Another US attack on Iraq likely
There are fresh reports that
America is preparing to Attack nuclear installation of Iraq on pretext that Baghdad is trying to conceal some of its nuclear installations from the United Nations mission. Iraq, however, says that it has produced complete information to UN mission and America is looking for some excuse to once again attack Iraq.
One is astonished over the double standard applied by the United