The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
oward's eyes never sleep
The martyrdom of Shaikh Abdullah Azzam al-Shaheed, though months ago, is still fresh in our minds. By reviewing his life, the number of times he faced death, we are reminded that the timing of death is in the hands of Allah (SwT).
Three times, during and after the War of 1967 in Palestine, Abdullah al-Shaheed faced death at the hands of the Jews.
In the first instance, he had gone with a group of heroic youth to take cover at the edge of a village in some caves. They had settled there for a little while when a Jewish soldier passed by and advised them to leave their caves because the land had been sold to the Jews. Suddenly, a tank shell fell beside them, nearly setting them on fire, but Allah (SwT) protected them from the fire.
After the total occupation of Palestine by the Jews, Abdullah al-Shaheed decided to leave his motherland with his young companions, saying: “The land of Palestine is polluted, and I will never step back on it, except as a liberator, if the Almighty wishes.”
On their way to the riverside of Jordan, they met abruptly with a Jewish patrol of several officers. They were stopped and searched. When one of the Jews poked his hand into Shaikh’s internal pocket which contained the Holy Qur’an, Shaikh stopped the hand by hitting it powerfully while telling him that: "The Holy Qur'an can only be touched by clean hands.” The Jew was taken aback, but then recovered and determined to kill them all. Suddenly another Jewish patrol appeared and stopped them from committing the crime of killing.
When the operations of Jihad
Shaheed Dr. Abdullah Azzam
around Palestine began, Shaikh Abdullah al-Shaheed was one of the Ulama (Muslim scholars) who was a commander of a front. One day he was praying Dhuhr (noon prayer) while two brothers were nearby cleaning their guns. A bullet went off accidently and passed through Shaikh’s beard, taking with it only some hair.
After the liberation of Jordan, the army took the action of investigation of those persons who were connected to the chain of liberation activity to pin them in court for penalty. Certain army men came to the Shaikh’s sister’s home and asked for the “thick-beard”. The Shaikh’s son told them that the Shaikh was absent and they left. Later the army came again for the same purpose, but they were more in earnest to find the Shaikh. After a while, the Shaikh came out to them, and asked: “What do you want?”
They answered: “We want you to come with us to the command post” Shaikh requested them to calm down and have a short conversation with him. The angry Jews sat down and listened to Shaikh’s lecture. In brief, he told them that killing an innocent Muslim is the most horrible crime ever mentioned in any holy book, and a firm punishment will be dealt to those who commit such a crime by the King of the Day of Resurrection. The Jews returned to their commander and told him that the Shaikh was not found at his place.
Translated from Lahib al- Ma'rakah 93: March 3, 1990, by Abdullah
Famine kills...
Province to Faryab Province. It was then put on sale in the Almar market from where residents of the neighboring areas of Kouhestan, Lala Bai, Kouh-e-Toor, and Lafra purchased wheat and barley for their use.
“In Almar the Mujahideen commanders forced those who had stored wheat and barley to distribute it among the starvation-stricken people, but now those reserves are also ending,” they said.
The urgent action required to prevent starvation in Almar is to buy grain from Shoulgar or Mazar-e-Sharif cities of Balkh Province and then distribute it among the famine-stricken people. Taking wheat from fertile areas such as the Helmand or Qandahar provinces is not possible because it takes a long time to carry wheat to Faryab due to the difficult mountainous passes of the neighboring areas and the Faryab Province itself. So, the best way remains to purchase wheat from Balkh Province. The people are also suffering economic problems butdistribution of money may create new problems among them,” Bro. Saleh Muhammad remarked.
“One of the relief committees had promised to send a delegation to Shoulgar or Mazar-e-Sharif cities of the Balkh Province to purchase wheat and carry it to the famine in drought-stricken areas,” Br. Saleh Muhammadsaid. They were planning to carry wheat to those areas and distribute it among the people at a cheap price. Those who cannot afford to pay the price would work in the mentioned committee’s reconstruction programme to build and reconstruct roads and bridges in the area but no action has been taken so far.
About the price of wheat, he said that wheat is sold for Afs. \2,400 in Almar, while in Faryab it is between 1,700 and 1,800 Afs. But in the areas controlled by the puppet regime the price was 1,500 Afs. Recendy the regime’s besieged forces were also suffering famine, and received only some food stuffs occasionally by air.
Page 47