The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
Page 07
or soliciting for more fighters for Islamic cause at random or doggedly defending the indefensible at all costs during unavoidable crises.
Our duty is to avoid sectarian theological dispute in all forms and any Muslim worker must first appreciate the importance of having a broad-based grasp of the TRUE Islamic perception of life. The major objectives before Islamic revolutionary development is infinitely larger than barren theoretical controversies. The world is a place of reality, and social unrest aimed at chagning an oppressive system formed over a long period of time and hardened up by the ironfist of local traditions must first and foremost be pragmatic in all its programmes. Its defenders must be oriented to rise above personal conflicts of ego and internal fightings based on non-issues and destructive squabblings.
What is exactly intended here is that members of the highest body of any serious organization that coverts the ambitious role of serving as a dependable spokesgroup for the entire Ummah must fully comprehend those fundamentals which give Islamic revolution its unique character and permanent dynamism. The fulfillment of this is too necessary in today ’ s local and global ideological struggles.
The second observation we must take total congnizance of is that of the unavoidable necessity of identifying who exactly the real enemy of a future Islamic Afghanistan is. Here too the adversary can not just be any person who raises up a resistance-flag to disturb the serenity of his neighbour-hood nor those
The end of the road: killed communist special squad
opportunist political manupulators who frequently mount religious pulpits at least once a week to gain popular recognition and international popularity by instigating inter-tribal animosity and partisan fueds. Though these
quasi-religious zealots are without doubt obstructions on the path of any meaningful and progressive change in the nation, yet they are of a secondary importance and should therefore not be taken as primary.
wmm
Captured enemy's tank
The major reason why Afghan Jihad continues perpetually is that the very interests which imposed themselves on the people by denying them their basic right of self-determination and honorable participation in the affairs of their own community are still very much alive. The imperialists and their local sycophants gain one way or the other from the present existing sociopolitical and administrative orders in the country.
As a result of this candid observation, we can say that, the eternal adversary of our Islamic revolutionary struggle is that very oppressive system, which deliberately props up mediocres into sensitive positions of authority, implants sectarian and partisan dogmas into the the psyche of the people and leaves the whole country in confusion and disorder by permitting treacherous government officials to get away happily with their crimes and ill-gotten booties.
To destroy such a system appears more important than hair-splitting controversies on theological niceties and metaphysical dialectics. Our enemy is the existing state of things which callously abandons majority of the citizenry in abject penury and joyfully condemns the vibrant generation of our youths into sophisticated ignorance even after acquiring some elementary, secondary or so-called university education.
The few people who managed to gain scholarships in higher colleges in Moscow, Washington or any other European capital return again to serve their benefactors. People therefore go to foreign universities to learn how best to marginalize their fellow country-mcn or in the alternative fit perfectly into the existing