secret that the war has been imposed on us.
The Russian agression and their military presence in Afghanistan gave birth to the war which is still continuing. As long as there are Russians, nothing can stop our struggle for liberation. The presence of Russian forces in our country is an unsheathed sword dangling over the heads of our people and threatening their lives, usurping their independence and making them to resort to war for safeguarding the Muslim values.
Just and just the withdrawal of the Russian forces from Afghanistan can stop the bloodshed and devastation. The day the Russian forces withdraw, peace and security will return to our country very quickly. Our patriot and freedom loving people who have, never, in the course of history, capitulated to the alien forces in their country, consider the presence of the Russian forces in Afghanistan equivalent to the continuation of war on their part even if the barrels of their guns are grounded and white flags of ceasefire are raised over their bases and camps.
If the Russians and their stooges really want a solution of the Afghan problem, cessation of bloodshed, and peace to the region, they should leave our country unconditionally and immediately without making any lame excuses. They should let our people determine their destiny precluding all avenues of extraneous pressures and influences.
The key to the solution of the Afghan
problem and the cessation of the war and
hostilities is with the Russians. If they choose
to avoid installing their puppet regime and
withdraw their forces from Afghanistan, none
can stop them. What hurdles the Russians
face in the pullout? Is it not possible for the
Russians to withdraw the rest of their forces
the way they pulled out their six regiments
precluding any conditions? The Russians
did not consult anybody on it, nor did they
ask anyone to open the borders of Afghanistan for them.
it visible or invisible interference from the West, as the Russians claim, made them
invade Afghanistan, then we should lament their prudence that instead of taking any counter-measures against the West, they deemed it fit to step into Afghanistan—a step which drew worldwide condemnation and which is a stigma on the face of Russian imperialism.
In the course of this brutal military intervention, they committed heinous and unpardonable crimes which history will never forget.
But the West keeps you stuck up in Afghanistan and does not allow you to get out?
Most surprising is Najib's address to our nation: "Let's put out the flames of war, and forget the past. War is fust burning in fire and war is just hell and hell is the abode of sinners. God Has cursed war. We propose peace and reconciliation. Of workers tell me what has the war brought onto you? Fathers, mothers, children, mountains and valleys! Tell me if you need war? We want peace."
/ say to Najib: All those people curse the war-mongering aggressors. Everybody wants peace and everone is willing that peace should return to his country. But what other choice can they have for the restoration of peace other than reistance against the usurpers?
Najib, tell me!
What can else workers, peasants, traders, Ulema and other sections of the people do in putting out the flames of war lit by the Russian invaders, other then armed struggle against the atheist invaders?
Do you think the orphans whose fathers have been martyred by the Russians, the widows whose husbands have been lost in the wake of Russian invasion, and the old fathers and mothers whose sons have been buried by the Red Army, will forgive the Russians?
The workers and peasants whose huts have been blotted out, strafed and shelled by the Russian forces and their country has
The Mujahideen Monthly
7
Jan - Feb 1987