gathering of Feb. 27,1990
Br. O. Searat
Br. D. Husaini
the decision of the commanders of all Mujahideen parties in Kunar Province with regard to consolidating their ranks, setting up a unified administration and establishing an elected Shura on the district, sub-district and provincial level. We consider this as an effective step in the direction of solution of differences.
8-	We reject the formula of the six parties for convening a Loya Jirgah and the formation of a selected Shura as it is flawed, impracticable, and unacceptable in our view. We insist on holding genuine elections and the establishment of an elected Shura. We will not agree to the mentioned formula unless elections in the liberated areas and among the refugees are guaranteed. If the six parties proceed to bring in selected members to the Shura then we cannot but take a separate decision after an understanding with the other Jihad forces supporting elections. The responsibility for the consequences will rest on the shoulders of those who do not trust their own people, are afraid of elections and do not allow the Mujahideen and the refugees to express themselves about the future government in Afghanistan.
9-	We strongly condemn the attitude of those Western governments which are for the imposition of Zahir Shah on our nation, have conspired with the Russians in this regard, resort to conspiracies against our Jihad, launch baseless propaganda against the Mujahideen, try to ensure the survival of the regime in Kabul, have resumed their diplomatic relations with the Kabul regime, increase the pseudo-credibility of the regime, send their spies into Afghanistan and employ agents inside the country.
10-	We strongly support and defend the Jihad of the Kashmiri nation for their right of self-determination and condemn the brutal actions of the Indian government against the defenceless Muslims of Kashmir. We pray that the faithful nation of Kashmir in their struggle for independence succeed and obtain their freedom from Indian occupation and take their rightful place in the community of free nations.
11-	The Afghan Mujahideen support the developments in Eastern Europe and the uprisings of the subjugated nations of Tajikistan,
Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan. Weconsider the dispatch of force to the occupied Muslim republics and the slaughter of the innocent Muslims there as a brutal, inhumane act and condemn it with the strongest possible terms.
12-	We consider the hypocritical attitude of the false champions of human rights and democracy vis-a-vis the Kashmir, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan issues where they, instead of defending the oppressed and supporting the just cause of freedom and liberty, supported the enemies of freedom and the tyrannical invaders and approved of the unwarranted slaughter of innocent human beings as an inevitable action, as a shameful stand on their part and a factor revealing their true faces.
13-	We, in this great and historic rally, once again renew our pledge to-continue our Jihad until seeing Afghanistan free, independent, with an elected Islamic government and we declare that: We will not lay down our arms and not vacate our strongholds until an elected Islamic government at the hands of our Mujahideen is established.
Page 30