HINDU LUST FOR
by Q.M.Saeed
MUSLIMS BLEEDING
The bigoted Hindus, with the covert approval of the Indian Government, have once again resorted to spilling the blood of innocent Muslims in India.
This time the slaughter resulted from the Muslim's sharp reaction to the biased ruling of a Hindu court that a longtime mosque could be converted into a Hindu temple. The riots resulted in the martyrdom of tens of Muslims and spread even to New Delhi.
Since the introduction of Islam into the Subcontinent the prejudiced Hindu majority have been charting out systematic programs for the massacre of Muslims and looting their homes and villages.
Each time anti-Muslim violence has erupted Muslim babies,children, women and the aged have been martyred in large numbers.
The prejudice reached its climax when the Muslims campaigned for the establishment of an independent Islamic state. Their demands united the Muslims of India and their sacrifices ultimately materialised with the formation of Pakistan.
At the time of the formation of Pakistan Mahatma Gandhi because of his Hindu prejudice aroused the anti-Muslim feel ings of the Hindus resulting in the mass exodus of Muslims from India to the newly formed Islamic Republic — the dreamland of all the Muslims of the Subcontinent.
The Hindus attacked the caravans of the Muslims looting them and martyring many people, especially women and children.
Those who reached Pakistan then faced the mammoth task of
establishing the new state, a fledgling nation which lacked many resources.
The immigrants rolled up their sleeves to lay the foundations of ^their new homeland while those were left behind, in the Hindu inferno found themselves in perpetual conflict with the enemy, often fighting for their very survival.
The Hindu violence against the Muslims has always had the blessings of the Government of India and has resulted in the martyrdom of thousands of innocent Muslims.
The Hindu hypocrisy reached new heights when Mrs Indira Gandhi pursuing Machiavellian policies, assumed office. She promised that the Government would protect the Muslims and restore their civil rights.
In reality Indira Gandhi's Government fuelled the anti-Muslim feeling among the Hindus. During her tenure as Prime Minister thousands of Muslims were killed and many Muslim women were systematically sterilised under the guise of family planning and population control programs.
Many Muslim men were also
forcibly castrated in hospitals throughout India in order to curtail the Muslim population.
Instead of restoring civil rights to the Muslims her Government continued to supress the Muslims,
V
continually trying to deprive them of any power or rights they had.
However Indira Gandhi's thirst for power was not satisfied and in addition to trying to crush the Muslim population of India she also started meddling in the affairs of East Pakistan.
Fearful that Pakistan would flourish and become an Islamic force to be reckoned with Gandhi, in collaboration with world imperia lists and social imperialists in particular, worked hard to split East Pakistan from West Pakistan.
India's forces that invaded East Pakistan stained their hands with the blood of thousands of Bengali mothers and children.
Although the split between East and West Pakistan was a catastrophe for the whole Muslim Ummah which caused the pleasure of Islam's enemies, yet it led to the creation, of a new Islamic country notr to come under India's sphere.
The Mujahideen Monthly
13