circular at the top and conical in shape were everywhere. They measured about 5 to 6 meters across at the top and about 3 to 4 meters deep. At the upper end of this valley we rested and performed the zuhr prayer and continued our journey heading towards a pass called Dobandi Dobandi is a well known spot where numerous Mujahideen groups and caravans have been ambushed in the past by the specially trained Soviet Spitnaz troops. Before crossing the pass we split into three groups. The lead group which was made up of 10 experienced men carried with them rockets and rocket launchers. Before reaching the top of the Dobandi pass, we rested by a small spring of water that was rather recently used by the retreating Soviet soldiers. Opened food cans with Soviet writing on them were scattered around the spring with piles of empty cartridges of different sizes. On the top of the pass all three groups gathered, and we practiced target shooting using Klashnikov guns which each of us carried on our shoulders.
Following this we continued on our path toward our destination which was the Abchakan Mujahideen base On the way one accompanying Mujahid showed me several spots where Soviets ambushed the Mujahideen, pointing to graves along the road of the fallen brave. He said the ambush often created suspicion among the surviving Mujahideen that perhaps an informer was among them. The suspicion was there because the Soviet Spitnaz would show up precisely at the time when the Mujahideen caravan was passing a specific point even if they had changed their trip schedule prior to
reaching the Dobandi pass. After the liberation of the area, however, the Mujahideen discovered several pieces of Soviet electronic equipment buried in the ground in strategic spots with only a sensor antenna showing above the ground. Apparently these devices informed the Soivets of a passing caravan, and with the help of this equipment, the Soviets carried out their precise and deadly ambushes.
Our walk to Abchakan base was tring but we also learned a few of the discriplines that the mujahideen exercise in Afghanistan. We learned that you always keep your gun with your no matter what you do You always stay clean with wudhu (ablution) since you don’t know when and where you will become a martyr. While walking, keep one eye on the ground to watch for anti personnel mines and the other on the sky to watch for Soviet helicopters and jet planes. Beyond these precautions you move bravely and rely on Allah (swt).
On the third day of our stay at the Abchakan base we were about to observe signs of the Mujahideen morale before they participate In an operation. The plan to capture Pui-i-Alam, the capital of Logar province and the only unllberated town in Logar province, was drawn during the previous days. The necessary heavy equipment was moved into strategic positions. I carefully observed how the commander of the base selected men among the Mujahideen who will participate in the operation and how the Mujahideen were going to react to his selection. I expected some Mujahideen to say they were sick since I knew
two of the men had fevers, and I had just given them Tylenol to lower their fever. Now selection took place however, and no one refused to participate Everyone began to prepare himself for the daring evening war with the Soviets and Afghan communist soldiers at Pul-i-Alam some 25 kilometer away from the base.
Everyone seemed cheerful and energetic and quite eager to leave Mohammad Gul, a young man 14-15 years of age, also began to tie his waist and wrap his legs with a doth known as pitaba I and my other colleagues surely thought that Mohammad Gul would stay since he was very young and was assigned the duty of cooking and serving tea to us, the guests. Every day Mohammad Gul had served us tea quite humbly. But now our tea server stood there firm like a master and was ready to challenge a superpower army. When everyone was ready to leave (except us, the guests) they cohered for a brief prayer and saying of farewell. Mohammad jumped on a rock, held his gun high over his head and firmly declare: "We shall fight until the last Soviet soldier is out of Afghanistan. We shall fight until we form an Islamic government In Afghanistan." While they were reciting "Allahu Akbar wa Lillahil Hamd" the Mujahideen marched towards Pul-i-Alam. As of this writing Pull-i-Alam is still under siege by the Mujahideen and is expected to fall soon, Insha Allah.
The Mujahideen Monthly
41
November 1988