The Mujahideen , April/May, 1990
The uprising in Azerbaijan
When the Islamic revolution took place in Iran in February 1979, the slogan of the Allah-u Akbar reached the ears of Azeris. At the same time the heroic struggle of the Afghan Mujahideen and their staunch faith to continue Jihad against a superpower encouraged the Russian Muslims to liberate themselves from the clutches of socialist imperialism.
By Javid Iqbal
The Azerbaijan Republic of Russia, dominated by Muslims, has been the victim of chaos and instability for several months. The Muslims of Azerbaijan are fighting on two fronts, wanting independence from Russia on the one hand, and fighting for their rights from Armenia and Georgia on the other hand.
When the Azeris established a party in opposition to the Communist party and established their own defence committee, the Russian tanks rolled in, crushing buses and cars to occupy Baku and sinking ships to dominate the harbor. When the Azeris removed the border restrictions between Azerbaijan and Iran so they could meet with their relatives in Iran, the Russians occupied the border points and closed them again, firing on any one who dared to cross. The leaders of the opposition party have been arrested. No journalist dares report the number who have been killed in this occupation by the Red Army. The question arises as to why this is happening, and what will be its consequences. To know this we must briefly review the history of Azerbaijan.
Azerbaijan was a Muslim state and had been under Persian influence until the Tsar, Peter the Great, developed the expansionist policy of reaching the warm waters of the Gulf and succeeded in annexing Baku in 1723. The Muslims were able to get rid of
Russian suzerainty after 12 years of laborious struggle, and Azerbaijan became totally part of	Iran.
However, at the beginning of 19th century, Russia again thought of reaching the gulf, and Tsar,
Alexandar the First recaptured it in 1813 after eight years of tough fighting with the Azeris.
Eventually the War of 1914 gave impetus to the Russian masses to revolt against the Tsar of Russia. The Azeris were also encouraged to announce their independence and declare the sovereign status of Azerbaijan. However, other ethnic groups living in Baku opposed independence. They confiscated some area and made an Armenian their chief. Meanwhile the Azeri Muslim state reached on agreement with Turkey, and they jointly attacked Baku and established their government under Fateh Ali Khan. An election was held for a Constituent Assembly on December 7,1918, and the government was formed under Nasib Khan. The Allied Powers gave “de facto’” recognition to the Azerbaijan government in 1920.
Only two and a half months after this recognition, the Red Army invaded Azerbaijan. The Muslim population was treated harshly and slaughtered indiscriminately by the Communists. One hundred twenty thousand Muslim people including two prime ministers were taken to Siberia. All relationships of Azerbaijan with the Muslim states such as Iran and Turkey were cut off during the S talin era. To disconnect them from their past, the Russians changed their Arabic script first into Latin and then to Cyrillic. During the Second World War when Russia attacked Iran, she tried to spread Communism there. On the intervention of the USA, she withdrew her troops; otherwise she was not in a position to leave Persian Azerbaijan. Stalin and his successors created so much horror and harassment in
Page 34