SEALING
Unable to defend even Kabul from the Mujahideen's attacks the Russians are now reviewing their tactics as against the Mujahideen's overall strategy of dragging the war to the capital cities.
In line with the tactics of the Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan Mujahideen under the command of Eng. Jalaluddin, who has many fighters under his control in Kabul, have attacked major Targets in the heart of the city, including the so-called Peoples' House, Ministry of Defence. Russian Embassy and the International airport.
These operations are a success primarily because they are launched by proficient Mujahideen who work well according to planned strategy. Secondly the attacks are conducted by youths who with full zest and zeal operate in areas which they know well.
Finding Kabul under constant Mujahideen fire the Russians, who have been seriously embarrassed by the attacks, have tried to drag the fighting to the southern borders of Afghanistan, pretending to be sealing off the borders with Pakistan ; a claim they first voiced in the days of their flagrant and ill-fated invasion in Dec. 1979.
The Russians have tried their hardest, employing vast resources, to try to move the focus of the fighting to the border areas but have failed.
The pattern of sending theii troops to the borders after attacks on Kabcil and calling Tt attempts to seal off the borde/s has been strictly adhered to by the Russian strategists.*
. The recent fighting in'the border
k
The Mujahideen Monthly
i
Mujahideen aiming garinov at Russian's Mig (Ghazni)
i '
areas of Jaji and Khost divisons which flared up on August 27 and is continuing verifies this analysis.
The Russians sent 35,000 troops to the ,Jaji district to try to divert the attention of the Mujahideen from the Kabul area and claimed they were there to block the Mujahideen's routes, j, Notwithstanding the number of troops and the time they chose for it, Eid, a time most of the Mujahideen prefer to be with their families, Mujahideen from several
organizations in the Paktia province pooled their resources and under the sagacious command of Eng. Hikmatyar, the Amir of Hezb-i-lslami, went to war against the incomparable odds. After 10 days of resistance they defeated the enemy that had come as close at three kilometres to the border and repulsed them eight kilometres, ultimately forcing, the 35,000 Red Army troops plus hundreds of their commandos to withdraw, from the area.
(
27