towards Islam suggests that they do not comprehend this religion because there is abundant evidence of a collusion between the superpowers to suppress Islam and Islamic governments, so that in any agreement between the Soviets and the West, the issue of the prevention of an Islamic government is an area of common interest from which other related agreements are made. As far back as 1985, former American President Richard Nixon suggested that both superpowers pool their resources to jointly combat the threat of Islamic fundamentalism. As recently as mid-December 1989, the Pentagon organized a conference to discuss future American political and military strategy towards the Muslim world. According to Professor Bulliet of Columbia University and the Middle East Institute who attended the conference, the majority opinion was formed by a coalition of conservatives, hawkish anticommunists, and Zionists who view Islam as a threat to the U.S. and Western civilization in the same manner as Communism was previously viewed. They decided that it would be in the U.S. interest to oppose Islam and Islamic politics in the Muslim world. It appears that the Americans would like to replace the Western anti-Communist fervour with anti-lslamic fervour.
Supporting the hypothesis of collusion between superpowers is the American decision of cutting off aid to the Mujahideen for several months during a very crucial time when the Najib government was about to fall. At the same time as the Americans cut off aid to the Mujahideen, a tremendous increase in the Soviet arms shipments to the Najib government occurred. It appears as if it was decided by the superpowers in advance to bring a balance of power between the Mujahideen and the Najib government so that the formation of an Islamic government could be prevented or at least deferred until another alternative is found.
It may have been their search for an alternative to the Mujahideen government that recently both superpowers separately met with the former Afghan King Zahir Shah to persuade him to form a nationalist government.
The best course for Gorbachev would be to allow the Afghan nation to determine its own destiny. Since the Soviets admit the invasion was a mistake, instead of providing $300 million per month to Najib to kill more Afghans and to destroy their villages, it
would be much better for the Soviets to use this money for the reconstruction of Afghanistan, a country in ruins because of the Soviet's mistake.
Similarly,’for tne U.S., the best course, as also recommended by Professor Bulliet, would be to adopt a positive attitude toward Islam in the coming decade. Such a policy would help the U.S. benefit from the historical political current that is flowing across the Muslim world where Islamic politics is in the ascendancy, and, at the same time, lessen the American military burden which would be undertaken to continue to support repressive anti-lslamic regimes.
Regardless of the efforts of the superpowers to derail the Mujahideen from their course of establishing an Islamic Government, the Jihad continues. Defection from the ranks of the Najib regime is gradually reducing its hold on Afghanistan. The Mujahideen who have been totally united in their demand for an Islamic government are examining ways to best establish a lasting system of Islamic government in their country. For the formation of a strong central government the Afghan Mujahideen recognize the need for a nationally approved leader. The mechanism
preferred by the majority for achieving this goal is national elections, and the details of the method for conducting elections are currently being specified.
The freedom-generating events in Eastern Europe, following the completion pf the Soviet troop withdrawal from Afghanistan, have greatly added to the Mujahideen conviction that God has not wasted their efforts and sacrifices because every man or woman who is freed will wish freedom for others, including, especially, for those whose sacrifices contributed to their freedom. Thus, the number of the Mujahideens' friends and supporters will continue to expand.
The Mujahideen appreciate the good will of those friends who have been supporting their struggle whether this support is spiritual, political, or material. We hope these friends will continue their selfless support until Afghanistan is totally free and an elected Islamic government is duly established.
We firmly believe that Afghanistan will soon be free from any vestiges of the Soviet occupation and will stand tall among the family of free nations for its role in bringing dignity and freedom to other nations as well as its own.
Captured Communist regime troops.
4
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990