The Mujahideen , Apr illMay, 1990

TIMELINE OF A MAJOR MILITARY
UPRISING IN KABUL
ch 6, 1990, was the second day of the trial in Kabul of 124 officers who had been arrested in December under suspicion of plotting a coup. The Defence Minister General Shahnawaz Tanai felt the trial was just further evidence of how farNajib was willing to go toeliminate any suspected opposition. Even officers who were previously trusted friends of Najib had been arrested and executed on very flimsy grounds. Gen. Tanai decided that the time was right for a military uprising which he had secretly planned for at least eight months, including contacting the Mujahideen for their support through Hezb-i-Islami members in Kabul.
The headquarters of the uprising was to be the Defence Ministry Building on Darul Aman Boulevard from where Gen. Asef Shour, Gen. Ja'far Sartair, and Col. Kabir Karwal would organize the supporters of the uprising and be able to communicate by radio to coordinate the defecting army divisions in Kabul as well as maintain contact with the airforce in Bagram and supporting officers in other cities.
Gen. Tanai drove by an APC early in the a.m. to Bagram Airbase where a secondary command center was to maintain control of the defecting airforce. He believed that every pilot would support him or follow his orders except for one Najib loyalist pilot in Mazar-i-Sharif. Tanai was also reported to have the support in Kabul of the 5th, 7th, and 8th military divisions, the 37th commando brigade, the 4th and 15th armored divisions, as well as the 40th division in Bagram.
Unfortunately, the KGB got wind of the plot at the last minute and by the time the uprising started at 1.45 p.m.
on March 6 with the surprise bombing of the Presidential Palace, loyalist tanks had begun rolling toward Darul Aman where soon the chief command center of the uprising was fighting for its very existence. General Najib somehow escaped the bomb attacks on the palace where he was working that day and fled to the Russian Embassy where he consulted with his advisors about every move.
Initially, the Shindand Airbase, the Khaja Rawash, and the Bagram Airbase were fully controlled by the rebel forces. Over 150bombing missions were carried out the first day of the uprising by the airforce, accurately hitting not only the Presidential Palace but also destroying military, WAD, and Sarandoy installations around the city and effectively destroying Kabul Radio Station at about 1 a.m. early the next morning.
Najib recovered his radio facilities quickly and broadcast from another station, perhaps in Mazar. Martial music interspersed with recorded pronouncements by Najib and his new Defence Minister Aslam Watanjar were heard for two days while neither spoke personally on the radio. An indefinite curfew was imposed on Kabul after 7 p.m. on March 6,1990.
Around 4 p.m. March 6, Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar addressed a press conference in Islamabad, Pakistan, stating that the Hezb-i-Islami supported the military uprising, calling on all Mujahideen to intensify their attacks on the Najib regime forces to prevent mobilization of forces from other cities from reaching Kabul, and declaring that Gen. Tanai had made an agreement with the Mujahideen to topple the Najib regime so that elections could be held to establish an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
The Pakistan Foreign Office also commented on the uprising on Tuesday stating it was clear evidence of the fragility of the Najib regime and proved that the solution of the Afghan problem lies in the departure of Najib from power and the establishment of a
Page 6