(b)	Making Afghanistan militarily dependent on the USSR alone.
(c)	Brooding and supporting their leftist proteges through their embassy in Kabul and their comercial and cultural missions.
The Russian's won contracts for all but a few development projects in Afghanistan by Comparatively cheap cost offers and so paved the way for the advancement of KGB elements working as experts such as engineers and Agronomists.
They used to contract the projects whose raw material could be found in abundance in Afghanistan and they needed the manufactured goods back in the Soviet Union. For instance the citrus fruit farms project was contracted and financed by the Russians, but 90 per cent of the fruits were cheaply exported to the Soviet Union, whereas the majority of people in differents parts of Afghanistan did not even know the taste of fruit such as oranges, lemons and grapefruit and thus were deprived of useful nutritious food. The gas and petroleum of northern Afghanistan was totally contracted by the Russians and the governments of Afghanistan were forced to sell the natural gas and oil to the Soviets for a very cheap price, whereas nobody, even students of chemistry in the Kabul urSf-versity, had ever seen the practical use of gas. The crude oil sent to Russia was sold back to Afghanistan at three times the price. The third example is the thermopower plants in Balkh province which were solely used to power Russian factories.
Likewise, in the face of a dozen cement plants, that could have catered for the needs of all the major cities in Afghanistan, even Kabul faced acute cement shortage because all the
cement produced was being sent the USSR.
MILITARY:
The Russians virtually put an end to Turkeys military role with the Afghan army and stopped the Germans training the police and gendarmari. This made Afghanistan totally dependent on the USSR militarily.
The Russians were selling Afghanistan World War I tanks and military equipment which were no longer of any use as they modernized their arsenal in return for gas, petroleum and precious minerals.The Russians in collusion with the Zahir Shah government used to take tens of students and officers each year in the name
of higher education, where they were indoctrinated and Sovietized and ultimately used them in the toppling of any government which they thought was unable to preserve their interests in Afghanistan anymore.
MAKING AGENTS:
The Russian embassy in Kabul became a spy nest and a training center for all those who had a leftist leaning. Particularly in 1965 when the Zahir Zhah regime announced a fake democracy and restoration of fundamental rights.
Taraki and Karntal more than anyone else haunt&i the Russian embassy, where they were translating and printing Marxist literature and reprinting - marterial al-
28
The Mujahideen Monthly