The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991	mmmmmmi	Page 25	MMMMMM
I
WHY DOES IRAN WANT
HEKMATYAR’S HEADl
By: F. K. Abo Walid, PhD
It is a common human trait that whenever someone stands in the way of our goal, we experience anger. The degree of this anger depends on a variety of factors including the intensity of our goals, our psychological make-up and cultural background.
On August 29, 1991, the Iranian government showed a strange and bizarre anger reaction toward Eng. Hekmatyar, the Afghan Mujahideen leader, calling for his assassination and also stating that Eng. Hekmatyar has done more harm to the Afghans than the Soviets or the Kabul regime. This angry reaction from Iran was published in the English language daily newspaper Kavhan which is known tobeamouthpieceofMr. Rafsanjani. Such a strong reaction in Tehran raises the question of which of Iranian goals Engineer Hekmatyar may have frustrated. To answer this question it is necessary to shed some light on the background of Iran’s policy vis-a-vis the Afghan issue.
When the Islamic Republic of Iran was formed, its stand on the Afghan issue was admirable. They firmly supported the Mujahideen, assisted the Mohajereen(’refugees), and attacked both superpowers for materialism and immorality. With the martyrdom of Shaheed Beheshti
and numerous other revolutionary clerics.the composition of Iranian policy makers changed. Nationalistic and sect-promoting elements came to power. While Iran had isolated itself from the non-Muslim world, its war with Iraq also isolated Iran from the Arab world-perhaps it was the heavy toll of this isolation that caused Iran to abandon its original principled stand. Secret ties (which are not anymore secret) were developed with Israel (to buy weapons) and with the US (the hostage deal with Reagan’s administration).
The post-revolutionary Iranian relations with the Soviet become obvious with the letter of Imam Khomeini to Gorbachev, and since that time Iran has been on a course moving closer and closer to the Soviets.
It appears that the revolutionary slogan of “Neither
East, nor West, Islam is the best!” has given way to a policy that serves the interests of the Iranian rulers. The current regime appears to be entrapped by the Soviets in the drama of the their dirty geopolitics.
The Soviets are well aware of the great potential that a Mujahideen-led Islamic government in Afghanistan would have in uniting Muslims, including the awakening of Soviet Muslims. Iran also knows that a Sunni Islamic government in Afghanistan will have widespread influence and supporters among the world’s 1000 millions Muslims because the majority of the Muslims are Sunnis, thus overshadowing the Iranian sphere of influence.
The Soviets may have reminded the Iranians that a Sunni Islamic government in Afghanistan will furthermore strengthen the demands of the Sunni in Iran to be treated fairly. Thus Iran and the
r
k