active in Parwan and Baghlan provinces along the Salang highway.
washed and getting "ideological training" were conscripted by the invading Soviet authorities.
strike at the security post of Siah Koh and Koh-e-Mulla on October 22.
A COLONEL KILLED IN GUERILLA OPERATION
The Mujahideen fired rockets near Qalat Ghilzai, headquarter of Zabul province, located on the Kabul-Qandahar highway, where a jeep and an armoured vehicle were destroyed. The jeep was boarded by Qalat Ghilzai's commander Colonel Sultan Azizi who was killed along with two body guards and the driver. The armoured vehicle accompanying the jeep was also destroyed. However the crew managed to escape.
SOVIET	AUTHORITIES
CONSCRIPT AFGHAN YOUTH
About 2,000 Afghan youth out of 15,000 reached Afghanistan after being brain
Giving the details, the AAP sources report that the Afghan youth reached Afghanistan have been sent to Jalalabad were 2,500 puppet troops have already been drawn from the Qargha garrison of Kabul. The Soviet authorities making the Afghan youth as fuel of the war anticipating the reducing figure of the Kabul troops.
According to these sources over 13,000 Afghan youth are still in Moscow and other cities for which their parents had expressed their severe resentment to bring back their children immediately.
OPERATION IN WARDAK PROVINCE
The Afghan freedom fighters led by commander Ammanullah
In the course of swift operation, the MujahideeH seized two machine guns, one
rocket launcher and 28 kalashnikov rifles while 14 Kabul troops including an officer were killed and injured. The invading forces conducted shelling on the rural localities afterwards as a result of which two women were martyred and two children were Injured.
The same day, a mobile force encircled the Mujahideen group in JaJrez area where three Mujahideen of Hizb-e-lslami Faiz Mohammad Khan, Abdur Rashid and Mulla Abdul Qadeer lost their lives. The Mujahideen broke the encirclment after stiff resistance and moved back towards safe places.
The Mujahideen Monthly
53
November 1988