logical sequel. The big powers usually, as a requirement for their existence, try to induce in the smaller and oppressed nations-an exaggerated perception of their power and importance. At the moment when this perception becomes damaged and the exploited nations realize that they could resist and could obtain their freedom, the decline of the big power begins and does not stop its downslide until the decline is complete.
For example, Great Britain, with all its might and grandeur and its jurisdiction over half of the world, fulfilling the saying, that "the sun never set on the Britain Empire", faced defeat in three wars with the Afghans. From
here the chain of its decline began and continued until the royal empire was delivered to the dustbin of history.
In the same way, we were hopeful that the fall of the empire of the Soviet Union would also begin in Afghanistan. As with Great Britain, the world perspective of the Soviet Union was an exaggerated and false picture. That image needed to be broken and replaced with a more realistic image. The Soviet empire was in "need" of a defeat. It was necessary that the Soviet forces enter a field somewhere and be defeated, and this happened in Afghanistan, and from Afghanistan its decline began.
Today, all the oppressed nations are wondering why they have not been like the Afghans, to fight for their independence. They say, "What do the Afghans have that we don’t have? If the Afghans have been able to gain their independence, why shouldn’t we be able to gain ours?" In fact, during the recent resistance in Poland, they chanted these slogans.
Anyone who contemplates the dramatic changes in the Communist Bloc will reach the conclusion that all these changes were triggered by the Soviet defeat in Afghanistan. In the West, however, some narrow-minded circles are not ready to give the credit of these changes to the Afghan Islamic Resistance. They are trying to analyze these changes differently.
Those people who try to attribute all these profound and monumental changes in the Eastern Bloc to one individual such as Gorbachev are making a mistake. They ignore all the deep changes that have taken place in the attitudes and judgment of people. It is not possible that individuals or systems such as that of the Soviet
Union could play a pivotal role in the changing of their own image.
It is also true that the personalities themselves may be the- result of these social changes. If Gorbachev is calling for reforms, it is the social conditions that have prepared the milieu for his call. Because the attitude of the people has changed, they approve of Gorbachev. They have realized the weaknesses and inabilities of Communism, and they want to change their own situation. They thought the Communist military force was strong; now they realize how weak Communism is.
The most important causal factor of the changes in Eastern Europe was the Soviet defeat in Afghanistan. However, instead of our Islamic Umma (Community) receiving maximum benefit from our grand historical victory, and instead of placing "Islam" as the name of the victor in this historical
conflict so that Muslims all over the world will feel pride in their religion Islam and exhibit this as a victory of the inscrutable Islamic force in the world, instead, we see that the West has attempted to explain how they themselves are the victors of the war in Afghanistan. The West, then, is trying to reap the benefits of this victory.
Moscow, too, unfortunately, instead of choosing the right path is going astray. Communism, as a system of thought, was initially a reaction against the decadent Western materialism. Now, however, because of the failures the Communists have faced, they would like to return to the old system against which they had originally arisen. What the Communists needed was to have instead chosen a different and more enlightened path, for the social problems of the Western society are even greater than those of the Communist society,
With this view in mind, I was vigorously protesting the interference of the Western countries in the Afghan
issue, so that they would not be able to claim the victory of our Jihad. They are trying to prove that the Soviets were defeated by modern American weapons. If the Soviets could be defeated by modern weapons, they should also have been defeated in Vietnam. In all the clashes that the West has previously had with the Communist Bloc, nowhere did the Soviets take one step backward. In every confrontation with Communism over the past several decades, the West had to retreat. Now it time, faced defeat and humiliation here is history that Communism, for the first in Afghanistan. It was a confrontation between Islam and Communism, and it was a defeat of Communism by Islam.
Q. What is your view of the role of the West in the confrontation between Islam and Communism?
Ans. The West has not only been fighting the spread of Communism, but
has opened up another front against the spread of Islam. The Soviets also have been fighting on two fronts, against Western capitalistic imperialism and against Islam. Active Islamicists, at the same time, have been struggling against both Communism and the Western decadence. This has created a triangle of oppositional forces.
The West and the Soviets have taken different approaches in their insidious plots. The West has attempted to suppress Islam by supporting secularisation of the governments in the various Muslim countries. Soviet Communism has taken a more violent approach by initiating a series of military coups d’etat such as the one in South Yemen and the 1973 Afghan coup.
The Afghan Jihad now has brought a revolutionary change in the triangular opposition of the Soviets, the West, and Islam. The Afghan Jihad exposed the false face of Communist expansion in the world and thus loosened the chain around the necks of the captive nations
6
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990