Province Mujahideen have unleashed heavy artilary fire on the regime positions at Pule Alam. Meanwhile, reports reaching from Maidan-Wardak Province says that Mujahideen have launched a surprise attack on regime’s installations and destroyed four tanks and two military Jeeps while captured one tank and five regime soldiers.
October* 3:
Said Karam District captured
Theonly adjacent district of Gardez in regime’s control. Said Karam fell to the Afghan Mujahideen, reports ANA. According to details Mujahideen entered this district, 8 kilometers North-East of Gardez garrison and after a fierce fighting captured the district. Said karam, the native district of the puppet regime president, Najib, was the only district that protected Gardez from the North-East of the city.
October, 5:
Afghan leaders reject Soviet proposal for coalition govt
Peshawar: Leaders of the four major political parties of Mujahideen have rejected the Soviet proposal for the formation of a Mujahideen coalition government in Afghanistan with the incumbent prime minister, Fazal Haq Khaliqyar reports Afghan News Agency. In this connection the chief of Ittehad-e-Islami, Professor Abdur Rab Rasool Syyaf, chief of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Burhanuddin Rabbani, representative pf Hezb-i-I si ami . Afghanistan Engineer Qutbaddin Hilal and chief of Hezb-c-Islami Maulayi Khalis, met in
Peshawar and hold a detailed discussion over the political developments on the Afghan problem. All the leaders unanimously rejected the proposal of Soviet Union for the formation of a coalition government with the communists. The leaders held Khaliqyar squally responsible for the crimes against the nation. They said that there was no difference between Najib or his prime minister or even any other member of his despicable regime.
Engineer Qutbaddin Hilal, chairman Political Affairs Department of HIA said that Mujahideen’s coalition with the communists is unquestionable. The communists arc national traitors, they are responsible for the martyrdom of more than 1.5 million Afghans, and plundering die national resources and devastation of the country. Therefore, any patch up with the communists for the Mujahideen isbeyond question. The communists must have to go otherwise the current struggle will be continued till a final victory, he remarked.
' Engineer Hilal said that the Watan Party is a combination of Khalq and Parcham Factions which is responsible for the devastation of Afghanistan and the genocide of the
Afghans. Unless and until the party is not removed from the power corridors in Afghanistan the Barnes of war will be burning in our country.
Commenting on the interim Govt, of Mujahideen he said that die same has lost its life and credibility. Mr. Mujaddadi could represent only his own party and he is not heading any Mujahideen interim govt. He said that it will be hi ghly unbecoming of any Jihadi leader to listen even to a coalition proposal rather than giving it a positive response.
Prof. Abdur Rasool Sayyaf in his comments over the Pankin
proposal has said that we reject all external interference in the affairs of Afghanistan and we would never compromise on our freedom and independence which we are going to achieve after historical sacrifices.
October, 12:
Weak elements might prefer “National
reconciliation*5 over Jitigd: Hekmatvar
Peshawar:	Engineer
Gulbaddin Hckmatyar, Leader of Hczb-e-Islami Afghanistan has said that the fate of those who are bidding