The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
\Page 34
GENERALFUNDAMENTALS
ERITREAN ISLAMIC
MOVEMENT
INTRUDUCT IONTher was a conference sometime back about the future of Eritrea as as independent state. That was before the defeat of the ruling Junta in Addis Ababa. The conference was inf act meant for a re-organization ofEritrean Islamic Movement so as to withstand theychallenges posed by nationalists, secularist and socialist parties in a future Eritrea. This was our own report
Translated by Yasin Murtadah
1:- The Eritrean Islamic Jihad Movement is founded on a true Islamic faith that is in total consonance with the Revealed Book of Allah and the practices and teaching (Sunnah) of the Holy Prophet in accordance to the understanding of the righteous earliest generation. This is comprehensive, thereby covering all shades of human endeavors: Spiritual, intellectual and Sociopolitical, Dawah techniques, principles of consultation and Jihad has been re-emphasized by the conference as the accepted instruments of change.
2:- We place an emphasis on the fact that the fabric of Islamic community can only be built in total adoption of Islam. We therefore rejectall form of partism dogmatism and schism. Arabic is the official Language of Eritrea.
3:- Accomplishment of Islamic goals through propagation, orientation and jihad.
4:- Developing and advancing the course of Jihad.
5:- Preservation and and
unity of Muslim community.
6:- Raising the living standard of everybody in all
human endeavors.
7:- Projecting the magnanimity of Islam and its righteous Social values in every individual.
8:- The sincere urge of selecting a sincere and disciplined leadership that is competent intellectually and otherwise so as to fulfill its official responsibilities.
9:- Our foreign relation is based on co-operation, integration, consultation,
Political Document
and organizations on all international platforms.
10:- Certainly Islam is
built on goodness and justice. A peace-loving person is treated peacefully and belligerency is met equally with confrontation. Islam likewise accepts armed resistance until Allah inherits the world and that which is there-in.
The Eritrean Liberation Front came into existence in the 1960s with the professed aim of salvaging the country. This constituted the backbone of the Liberation Front. It could be confirmed from the point view of
A map of East Africa