wants to deprive Afghan Mujahideen of the fruit of their long and historic struggle against foreign intervention. It was the Afghan Mujahideen who not only kicked Russian forces out of Afghanistan but also paved the way for the liberation of predominantly Muslims in Central Asian republics from the yoke of Kremlin. The changes in the Eastern Europe and independence of Baltic republics is also the result of the Afghan Jihad.
It is impossible. No one could deprive Afghan Mujahideen of the fruits of their historical Jihad which left about 1.5 million martyrs, thousands of injured and crippled and rendered about 5 million homeless. Such a nation could not allow some surrogates
f
or puppets of foreign powers to decide their destiny.
By conspiring against Muslim people of Afghanistan; it is America which is blocking efforts of peace in Afghanistan various Afghan leaders and especially Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar, Amir of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan, has so many times said that no one more than Afghans could be interested in ' peace in Afghanistan. Afghans want peace because they have already paid a heavy price to safeguard their independence. Other people or nations may be wanting peace in Afghanistan because of their humanitarian concerns but Afghans need it. It is in their interests. They know that their country is being destroyed
SSS& The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991	Page	04
and theirresources being depleted.	✓---------------------------x
So no one would accept the false	Madrid	conference	^
propaganda that the Afghan	conspiracy	against
themselves are not interested in	Palestianins	:	JI
peace. For the cause of peace in	|
their country, Afghan Mujahideen	Lahore:	Madrid	^
have so many times declared conference was the first part ^ general amnesty for all those who	American plot to ^
are ready to repent their past	provide security umbrella to	^
misdeeds and work for the	Israel. This was observed by	^
progress of their country in future.	t*ie Jamaat-e-Islami (JI)	^
Pakistan, which met here ^ The general amnesty declaration	under the chairmanship of its ^
is still intact. And this is in	Amir, Senator Qazi Hussain ^
complete contrast to the behaviour	Ahmad,
of the Allied powers after the	A resolution passed ^
world war II who did not spare	in the meeting said, for the	^
their enemies for their war crimes	next step America would	^
even after their death. The western	bring Arabs and Isrelis to the	^
media resembles the bat which	negotiation table face to face	^
could not see in the light. It is	and finally America would	|
very much clear that USA is not	make Arabs recognisie the	|
interested in peace in Afghanistan.	Zionist state.
She wants a civil war in this	The resolution said ^
country. She wants to deprive the	that those who participated in	^
freedom loving nation of	the conference as Arabs did	^
Afghanistan of their fruits of a	not represent Palestinians.	^
successful Jihad. She wants to	The resolution condemned	^
block the dawn of the Islamic	the resettlement of the Jewish	^
revolution in our country. She is	immigrants in Israel and	|
worried that Islamic revolution in	added that it was nothing but	^
Afghanistan could serve as a	an encroachment and illegal	^
catalyst for similar revolutions in	and immoral violation of the	^
the other parts gf the world and	human rights of a nation,
thus threataing her hegemony.	The resolution said ^
that the only solution of the ^ It is however, clear beyond any	Palestine issue lies in “waging ^
shadow of doubt, that American	a Jihad against Israel. The	^
foreign policy is totally against	entire Muslim Ummah and	^
Islam and Muslims; but with the	the judicious peopleshould	|
help of Allah Almighty the	help, the Palestinian in thier	^
oppressed Muslims of just struggle against the | iAfghanistan would also dash to	oppressors and “Allah would	^
ground the nefarious designs of	help them to accomplish their	^
the only super power United	sacred struggle,” the	|
States. The fate of USSR should	resolution added. H
be an eye-opener for her. -	^
Madrid conference conspiracy against Palestianins: JI
Lahore:	Madrid
conference was the first part of the American plot to provide security umbrella to Israel. This was observed by the Jamaat-e-Islami (JI) Pakistan, which met here under the chairmanship of its Amir, Senator Qazi Hussain Ahmad.
A resolution passed in the meeting said, for the next step America would bring Arabs and Isrelis to the negotiation table face to face and finally America would make Arabs recognisie the Zionist state.
The resolution said that those who participated in the conference as Arabs did not represent Palestinians. The resolution condemned the resettlement of the Jewish immigrants in Israel and added that it was nothing but an encroachment and illegal and immoral violation of the human rights of a nation.
The resolution said that the only solution of the Palestine issue lies in “waging a Jihad against Israel. The entire Muslim Ummah and the judicious peopleshould help, the Palestinian in thier just struggle against the oppressors and “Allah would help them to accomplish their sacred struggle,” the resolution added. u
I
I