The Mujahideen , ApriLMay, 1990
The people of Kunar exercise their right to vote
The brave people of Kunar, who liberated their province before the Russians had completed their pullout from Afghanistan, decided this year to exercise their right as a free people to vote for a provincial assembly,or Shoura. On March 1, 1990, they flocked to the voting centers and elected their 124 representatives, while maintaining a very cordial and disciplined atmosphere. Both the Kunar residents who were present in the province and those outside the province, i.e. those who were living in the refugee camps in Pakistan, took part in the election.
The purpose of the election was to unite the people of the province, who are members of some 12 different resistance parties, under one single, elected administration. It was unfortunate that the Afghan Interim Government based in Peshawar opposed the decision of the people of Kunar to hold elections. However, in defiance of the AIG, the election plan was implemented and the election was successfully completed.
The election plan was based on the method of proportional representation proposed by the Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan as a modality for the whole of the country. According to this method, each party sends members to the provincial assembly in proportion to the numbers of votes it receives.
The successful completion of the election in Kunar demonstrated the feasibility of the HIA proposed plan as well as the practicality of an election itself in the current Afghan society which is tired of imposed rulers.
The Kunar election was also very important as a pilot project for a countrywide election which has been a point of great debate between the Afghan
party poliucians, some of whom, not being very popular nationwide, have been opposing the whole idea of an election and prefer selection.
Another significant aspect of the Kunar election is that it provided evidence against theory that the Afghan people want the ex-king Zahir Khan and will not vote for Mujahideen leaders.
Theonly difficulty encountered was that the voting boxes fora distant area of Kunar called Kantiwa reached the vote-counting center somewhat late due to heavy snowfall. These votes which were over four thousand were from an area whose residents are members of the HIA. Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman’s party which has a strong presence in Kunar, second only to HIA, contested these votes because of their late arrival and insisted thattheybediscarded. Withtheinclusion of these votes the HIA was over four thousand votes ahead of Maulavi Jamil-ur-Rahman’s party. For the sake of a peaceful settlement of the argument, however, the HIA accepted a proposal that both HIA and Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman should have an equal number of representatives in the provincial Shura.
There were twelve parties that participated in the Kunar elections. For
each voting center, a box was constructed so that inside there were twelve smaller divisions, one for each party. Each division had a sign on it, specific to one party, and a slot for ballot deposition. The box did not have a lock; it could be opened only by breaking it. (See picture.)
The result of Kunar’s voting as reflected by the number of Shoura (Assembly) representatives allocated for each party as follows:
It is high time that every leader of the Afghan Jihad should learn a lesson from the elections in the Kunar Province. All Jihad parties based in Kunar Province took part in the elections and proved that a multi-party system in Afghanistan can work successfully. The experience gained in Kunar should now be extended to other provinces so that a real representative Islamic government in Afghanistan can be established.
0
Kunar election results bv		oarties
Party leader	Shoura Members	Percent
Eng. Hekmatyar	35	28.2%
Maulana J Rahman	35	28.2%
Prof. Rabbani	15	12.1%
Pir Gailani	10	08.1%
Prof. Sayyaf	05	04.0%
Maulawi Khales	05	04.0%
Prof. Mujaddidi	05	04.0%
Maulana Afzal	04	03.2%
Maulawi N. Mansoor	03	02.4%
Qadhi Amin Waqqad	03	02.4%
M. N. Muhammadi	03	02.4%
Maulana S. Zaman	01	00.8%
Total	124	100.0%
Page 20