The Mujahideen, September, 1991	•
Page 33

ISN’T THE US THREATENING WORLD
PEACE AND STABILITY?
Political scientists have given different interpretations to the concept of administration, security and world peace. They have pointed out that, creation of world security and maintaining global peace and stability are interchangeable. Whenever peace and security of the world is discussed, in effect it means world administration and order. And there are opinions on the fact that should this planet be governed by one or two or more systems? And each of these ideas has its pros and cons.
In fact, the world has been geo-politically divided into states or political units, and there are reasons for these divisions. History is a witness to the fact that the causes of emergence of these political units are different. We could vividly see that various governments with separate legal and administrative systems are governing these states. In addition to this, conflicting ideologies and religious institutions in these states have interrupted the process of unity among them.
The perpetual existence of the above facts led to the creation of the world bodies namely League of Nations and (after the world War II), United Nations Organization. Although given the time and circumstances these organizations had their differences, they had one thing in common i.e. they mostly served the purpose of the Allied powers after the World Wars I and II.
Further more, it was the United Nations that has further strengthened the grip of these so-called advanced countries over the world politic and this has continued to this date. Each of these states, particularly United States and Soviet Union with their vast military and political capabilities are out to fully utilise the UN for their advantages.
It was impossible for one of these two countries to dominate the world by resorting to military force, therefore, each was out to get other countries support within the organization, so as to increase its hegemony over global administration.
This process continued for a long time, and the world practically has been divided into East and West or socialist and capitalist blocs. Third World or non-alligned countries (NAM) had to follow them blindly. To put it bluntly, the NAM had been pawns in their hands. Eventually this scenario also ended. Communism with its absurd philosophy which has been leading the socialistbloc for years is facing crushing defeats and further smothing the way for capitalism to dominate the world.
From one side the prospect of the creation for a
To achieve this end, they interferred, directly or indirectly, in the internal affairs of other nations and instaled puppet governments of their own choice.
sovereign world body was weakened and from another angle the World Wars and international conflicts with their undesirable effects were stressing the need for further mutual understanding among nations. On the other hand, the winners of the wars have proclaimed themselves the sole masters of the world.
It is crystal clear from the current situation that communism is devoid of leadership in the socialist bloc. And also it is the truth that communism is a dead ideology. Hence the socialist countries are trying to adopt the capitalist way of thinking. America which is at the helm of the capitalist nations is having the control of the game and will do anything to get its desired result out of this competition.