BBSSMHRMJp
The home of taraki in Surkally.
supplied from Surkally. Several offensives by the Mujahideen in the past year had met with defeat causing heavy losses in both men and material, mostly due to aerial bombardment by the Kabul forces.
On September 6, 1989, the Mujahideen, under the "joint command of Dr. Alam Shah, Eng. Jan Baz, Hanif, and Maulvi Shamasullah of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan, and Sulaiman Agha of Mahaz-i-Milli, unleashed a major offensive of their combined forces against the village of Surkally. Their well-coordinated attack began with Zoorkally, 10 kilometers away from Surkally. Attacked from six sides at once, the village quickly fell to the hands of Mujahideen, and with it was a large quantity of weapons and ammunition.
The second attack was on Ghazgikally which is 15 kilometers from Surkally, but initially they were repulsed by the Kabul forces. However, the fighting continued. The enemy aircraft bombarded the area, but because they were required to fly at high altitude to stay out of range of the anti-aircraft guns of the Mujahideen, they were unable to accurately hit any Mujahideen positions.
Scarcity of food and lack of medicine and first aid facilities were other handicaps for the Mujahideen. Many of them could not even be provided treatment for!a case of fever. Yet taking inspiration from their staunch faith in Allah and the belief that they
were fighting for a sacred and genuine cause, they continued their fight.
After persistent fighting for over a month, signs of weakness were visible in the enemy ranks. The continued fighting had demoralized the forces struggling to preserve their system of tyranny and oppression. They started contacting Mujahideen to arrange a ceasefire, and a majority of them wanted to surrender to the Mujahideen.
The commander of the Kabul regime forces first suggested to the Mujahideen that they should agree to a cease-fire until next Spring and after that they would negotiate the option of surrender. The Mujahideen outrightly rejected this offer.
In the next offer, the Kabul forces set forth some pre-conditions for
surrender. First, the Kabul forces and supporters of the Communist regime living in the area would be allowed to remain there. Second, every person would be allowed to keep one light weapon for self-defence. The Mujahideen agreed to allow one light weapon for each family, but not to every individual. Furthermore, they rejected the first demand and insisted that the Communists should be shifted to some other independent area inside Afghanistan or be sent to Pakistan after surrendering. It should be noted that the Communists had confiscated the land and property of non-Communist villagers who had then been forced to seek refuge in other parts of Ghazni. This second negotiation also failed and resulted in renewed fighting.
On the 19th of October the Mujahideen launched a fresh offensive on Ghazgikally, Nangah, and other nearby villages surrounding the main target of Surkally. After only brief fighting, the enemy forces totally surrendered, and the green banner of the Mujahideen was flown in the village of Taraki.
After surrendering to the Mujahideen, Brigadier Khial Mohammed Taraki, the commander of the Kabul forces and cousin of Nur Mohammed Taraki, revealed that he had kept the Kabul administration ignorant of his surrender to the Mujahideen. Thus it happened that while the final surrender was negotiated, Brigadier Khial received a wireless message from puppet President Najib congratulating him on his successful efforts at safeguarding their positions and strengthening the PDPA! The ignorance of the Najib government about the surrender of their troops paid great dividends. The Kabul
Tank captured at surkally.
30
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990