The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
Teacher demonstrating slide preparation
“Mujahideen Monthly.”
Some of the features of the Faculty of Education are as follows:
For 1989-1990 the Faculty of Education admitted 60 full-time and 180 part-time students in the first year program. Next year the Faculty will add Ensha Allah a second year program and continue to add professors and facilities each year until the Faculty is complete.
The educational staff for the program this year is composed of 15 experienced lecturers. It is envisaged that next year four specialty education departments will be created including 1- Math and Physics, 2- Chemistry and Biology, 3- History and Geography, and 4- Languages.
The professional and experienced administrative staff includes the Dean, the
Academic Principal, three Senior officers and 20 Junior officers.
The administration has striven to provide all possible facilities for the students of the Faculty of Education. Well-equipped laboratories for Chemistry, Biology, and Physics have been established. The library collection currently numbers greater than 1000 books and is expanding.
We hope that in the long run this Faculty will become a center for scholarly research and education.
As a newly established institution, we have many unfulfilled needs. If you are able to donate books or financially assist one of our students, please contact the Dean of the Faculty, Dr. H.R. Assim, 39 Park Road, University Town, Peshawar, Pakistan, Telephone 40462.
Palestine...
Palestine and threatening the efforts of the peace movements in both the Occupied Palestine and USA.
The effects of the passage of this resolution have already begun to appear. As a consequence of this resolution, the Israeli extremists were given a huge boost, a matter which precipitated the failure of the Labour Party’s Shemon Peres to form a government. Since Peres has openly committed himself to direct talks with the Palestinians, his failure to form a government should be viewed as a blow to the Middle East peace process. Another resultof the resolution has been escalation of the Israeli repression in the occupies Arab territories, particularly the massacre of April 26 in which four Palestinians were killed and 140 were wounded.
One would expect the American Congress would have exercised some caution in passing such resolutions and at least have a debate about whether to oppose three U.N. resolutions recognizing Jerusalem as occupied territory and to be the first to make a step contrary to the international community who all have had their embassies in Tel Aviv instead of Jerusalem for decades. It was an unnecessary and aggressive aetata time when interfering with the very sensitive negotiations concerning hostages in Lebanon as wel 1 as between Palestinians and Israelis is incomprehensible.
We believe that many Americans were shocked by the passage of this resolution and will inform their Congressmen of the grave consequences which their decision entails so that they will be able to review their decision and return to their moderate and cautious stance on issues in the Middle East. It will serve the cause of peace if the American Congressmen will educate themselves about the crisis of the Palestinian Muslims and take meaningful steps towards helping them gain their rights rather than allowing the Zionist lobby to pull the wool over their eyes.
Teacher demonstrating oral sample collection for slide preparation
Page 49