The Kabul puppet government has decided to form a new army consisting only of Communists especially those who they believe will remain faithful to the Marxist regime in Afghanistan. The new army will be called the Afghan Red Army.
The government has decided to form such- a force, because the regular army, security forces and militias have failed to cope with the Mujahideen's resistance.
The new army will be controlled by the Ministry of Intelligence and will be mobilized with tht other forces in Afghanistan.
One of the reasons for promoting the Khad Directorate (the Afghan secret police) to the level of a Ministry was that the PD PA was desperately in need of an army which could help keep Marxist regime in powef. Now the government plans to examine the Biodata of all the members of the PDPA both Khalq and Parcham factions and members of different government organisations such as trade unions, youth groups, women's organisations, student unions and tribal jirgas.
The Ministry of Intelligence wants to find out how active each PDPA member is and will not enlist in the new army those people who have just registered themselves for a cover and are not sincere with the government.
At a meeting on December 26 the Politburo of the PDPA decided that members of their party up to the rank of directorate would have to join the Afghan Red Army.
The government has already started a program to recrUite Communists for the new army and is increasing the salary of civilian officers who join by Afs. 2000 (US$ 18.) a month. As a further attraction the government will cal-
culate one month's pay on the basis of 50 days service-an extra 20 days salary.
Initially under this program civil servants could join the army for three months, then the period was increased to six months. However service in the new army, will be on a permanent basis.
To boot as the above program the Russian advisors in different Ministries and government organisation are also conducting enquiries about members of the PDPA.
After completion of the reports the Russians will ask all loyal Marxists to serve as army officers in their home provinces. The Russians have realised that the drift of PDPA members to Kabul and other big towns, because of the mujahideen's control over the countryside,, has hindered the propaganda campaign designed to win support for the Russians presence in Afghanistan.
The Russians have two motives in sending Marxists to the countryside: firstly to assure those non-Maixists who are not Mujahideen that they can also play a role in the protection of the Kabul regime by giving them a chance in the government. The non-Marxists will be used to fill the vacancies created in civil service by the recruitment of loyal Marxists to the new army. Secondly the army will be a hardline Marxist force which the Russians will be able to use to intimidate the coming so-called nationalist government of the marxist regime with.
On January 7 the head of the Directorate No. 1 of the Ministry of Intelligence, Mr Jalal, said at an official meeting that the Soviet Red Army might be unable to bear the heavy casualties being incurred in the fighting against the Mujahideen. He said there was a danger that the Russian army might decide to remain in barracks and refuse to continue fighting. Once this happened the Mujahideen would definitely take over.
He stressed that the survival of the Kabul regime depended on members of the PDPA joining the new Afghan Red Army.
Mr Jalal said that those fighting against the government were not rebels but Afghans who were opposed to Communism and particularly the Karma! regime. He said Afghanistan did not need a Marxist regime but a free society.
Mr Jalal's speech created strong fear among communist circles in Kabul that the Marxist regime is about to collapse and many PDPA members are no longer certain of their future.
PAKTIA PROVINCE
Mujahideen from the Al-Fateh Fronts of the Hassan Khil distt. have shot down a jet aircraft killing the pilot instantly. The plahe was part of a squadron of jets which was bombing the Hassan Khil village and fronts.
The Mujahideen Monthly
33