The Mujahuleen, October / November, 1991
Page 44
fulfilment of the Divine Wisdom, we must however take cognisance that apart from the common duty shared by all, each member of the human race has its own seperate and incumbent duties to perform. The individual contribution is as important as its collateral collective operation. The former must be divested of selfish ego-centricism, as much as the latter from blind communal absolutism. Accepting the challenges of life constitutes an attribute of faith and pragmatic approach to reality, elevates a believer well above others. It is Islamically abhorrent to be neglectful of one’s natural duties, but worse in culpability, is the prevention of others from discharging their fundamental obligations on earth. Allah the Most High says:-
"Those who disbelieve and hinder (others) from the path of Allah, we shall increase them in punishment after the (major) chastisement for the mischief they spread (on earth)”. (An Nahl 16:88)
Personal infidelity, in a world of common reality, is in essence, an eccentric abdurdity, but persistent conspiracy and deliberate hostility, in obstructing the resolute movement
of Universal Islamic T ransformation, is a colossal crime against the entire creation. The punishment is to be double fold, one, for willing unfaithfulness, and the other for global mischief mongering. The basic criterion in distinguishing a man from another, cannot be skin pigmentation, nor places of birth, nor geographical and residential locations. The common denominator in humanity is, acceptance of reality plus performance of one’s duties, or rejection and indifference to universal progress. Allah the Gracious says:- j
Altruism then, without a convincing cosmic objectivity, leads straight to nowhere. The goal must precede at all times its means, as the path must proceed at any given moment, towards the aim.
Naturally, we can say, man exists to be charged with duties, and Islamically, these various undertakings have their respective identities. The transition of what was yesterday, into what is today, represent vividly a historical picturesque of all created things. Our will to convert present thinkings, into future happenings, explains lucidly the force behind human strivings. The drive towards making tomorrow an improved version of today, readily provides rationale for all human philosophies of progress. In a situation where development is natural and humanity being a race with innate gregarious characteristic, its divergent civilizations at different times, must of necessity reflect as they do — very high collective tendencies. A man is judged in that case, not by what he holds as private property but by how much he gives as public gratuity. Not by what he keeps to himself personally but by what share he expends on humanity generally. It is not a question of accumulative possessibility but of strict contributive relativity. Allah the All-knowing says:-
“As for him who gives away and is pious Also attests to goodness, we shall facilitate for him (real) prosperity.” (Al-Lail 92 :7)
The man described here is a believer in Allah, not by mere verbal professions or vain empty pronouncements but by what he contributes as his own quota, towards human emancipation — spiritually and socio-politically. This contribution should be the peak of possible capacity, be it time, intelligence, sweat, money, blood and life. This becomes a practical demonstration of a hidden attestation. A transition of inner peity intoa witnessed reality. Above this too, is his subscription to the notion of Islamic Universal Goodness. He graduates therefore, from a simple believer to a dynamic Mujahid. This man holds that, in ’as much as perfection is no human attribute, for every human accomplishment there is a always a room for further improvements. It is to say that, there is no limit to human capability within the closed sphere of natural possibility. Global wheel of progress can thus be made a continuum.
"Do we have to make those who believe And work righteously like corrupt ones on earth. Or do we have to make the pious (ones) similar to the sinful.” ( As-Sad 38: 28)
<	J’
The message we are trying to convey here is that having faith is not as important as proving it. To profess a creed is not enough,butall spiritual declarations must be corroborated1 with socio-political actions. It means that, pragmatic consequences must follow realistic intellectual hypotheses.
Humanity therefore as a race, has a responsibility and Muslim Ummah as a community must champion the cause. The focal point of these all, is the principle of contributive relativity which demands from every one, not all that he has, but at least a substantial fraction of things in his possession for a common objective, which is Universal Islamic Transformation. From the above divine verse, piety (i.e. spiritualism) must be accompanied by charity (i.e sociopolitics), which in turn must be geared towards universal goodness (i.e. Islamic cosmic perception). This is the centre of