Sharana was on the victorious point, Mujahideen of Goomal and Urgoon under his command with Mujahideen of other parties jointly tookover four posts in the Zama area on Oct. 1st. In the attack one tank, two APCs, five army trucks, two 76mm cannons, six 107mm mortars, 10 heavy machineguns, eight ammunition depots were seized by Mujahideen. Twenty army officers, 130 soldiers were captured. In the attack 25 Mujahideen were seriously wounded.
One of the natorious officer, Lieutenant Jan Mohammad, who pretended to be soldier escaped during night, but he was captured near Kolalgo area and brought back to Khalid’s headquarters * for full interrogation.
On the 3rd Oct. Muta Khan subdistrict came under full control of Mujahideen where 85 soldiers surrended to the Mujahideen with their arms and ammunton. Large quantity of arms and ammunton, artillery were seized by Mujahideen.
Commander Farooqi told that after Muta Khan Urgoon was the only place left under the government control. After four days of heavy fight by all Mujahideen parties Urgoon was ranover on Oct. 7 on the loss of 15 martyres and 25 wounded. Deputy to Farooqi, Commander Sahibddin was seriously wound on anti-personnel mine during the fighting.
Some 800 militia of Wazir tribe of Pakistan’s tribal area and Afghan officers and soldiers under the command of Militia commander Takar escaped to Muta Khan subdistrict via Danah
valley, being unaware of that the Muta Khan was already under the control of Mujahideen At dawn the escapees were incircled by Mujahideen of Sarawaza, Sharana and Muta Khan and fierce fight took place between the Mujahideen and Takar's men near Srawaza. More than 150 militiamen, soldiers, officers, including Militia commander Takar were killed and the rest were arrested
Mohammad Umer Chief of Khad who was arrested offered 145	million	Afghan
(US$70,000.00) to a Mujahideen group to release him and take him to Gardiz, but the offer was rejected and he has been sent to the Mujahideen base in Muta Khan.
In Urgoon about 100 soldiers and officers were killed and some 500 were arrested.
The Mujahideen were able to seize eight tanks, 11 APCs, 75 trucks, one jeep with wireless unit, six 122mm cannons, 30 mid-range mortars, seven 76mm cannons, 1,500 different type of rifles, 100,000 sacks of flour--100 kilos each, and large quantity of ammunition and clothes.
Commander Khalid Farooqi added that his province is now under full control of Mujahideen and all Mujahideen’s commanders of different parties are of the view that the interim government can easily be established in their province. He said that very soon a joint statement of all the commanders would be sent to the Jehad’s leadership in Peshawar about the government. He disclosed that the rehabilitation and reconstruction have been started in the province by people.
Trucks captured
by Miyahideen on
Sept. 9
The Mujahideen Monthly
24
November 1988