Hekmatyar links changes
in E. Europe to
Afghan
Jihad
Eng.G. Hematyar
In a recent interview, Mr. Gulbudin Hekmatyar, the most dynamic and charismatic leader of the Afghan Mujahideen, threw light on different aspects of the Afghan Jihad with special reference to changes in the Eastern Bloc. The. interview is being reproduced below in question-answer form.
Q. Brother Hekmatyar, what was your feeling on the day when you knew the Soviets were leaving Afghanistan?
Ans. Praise be to Allah that the Mujahid nation succeeded in their struggle to extricate the foreign Communist forces from Afghanistan, and that the pride in this historical achievement became theirs.
The day when the last soldier was leaving Afghanistan, we were busy forming the Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan (IIGA) through the Shura Council elections. Still I cannot forget the moment of realization that the Soviets were leaving. I had amazing feelings that I cannot put into words. I also shed tears, which were tears of thankfulness for the blessings of God Almighty.
The feat that was accomplished by our hand was much greater than our ability. The greatest military power on earth was defeated by the hand of our poor and weak people who were equipped only with the weapons of Iman. (Belief in Allah). From the beginning, nobody in the world could believe that this defeat was possible,
but, thanks be to Allah, the Soviets were defeated and were forced to leave our country.
When the Soviet troops had invaded our country, a verse of the Holy Quran had flashed before my eyes, and I had felt sure that Almighty Allah had willed that the fall of the Soviet empire would be initiated in Afghanistan. The verse was VIII: 7 from Sura Al-Anfal which says.
"Remember the occasion when Allah was holding out to you the promise that one of the two hosts would fall to you: you wished the weaker host should fall to you: but Allah willed to prove by His words the Truth to be truth and to cut across the roots of the disbelievers so that the Truth should come out as truth and falsehood should be proved to be falsehood, even though the evil-doers did not like it." (trans. Maududi).
This verse was revealed at the time of the Battle of Badr when the Prophet (PBUH) was required to face the army of Quraish when he had hoped to only attack a caravan, I felt very strongly that in Afghanistan again Allah Almighty had willed it that the original force of the atheists be fielded so that its roots would be destroyed.
The day when the Soviet troops left Afghanistan, and the "last" Soviet soldier passed the Afghan border, this expectation of mine that the Soviet empire would fall was met, the expectation for which I had waited for, years to arrive.
Q. Parallel to the Soviet defeat In Afghanistan, the government of the Eastern Bloc are in a state of change. Some of these governments are dissolving the Communist Party, and the Berlin Wall has fallen. How do you assess this situation?
Ans. I expected that after the defeat of the Soviets in Afghanistan, there would be monumental changes and extensive worldwide consequences related to the defeat, especially in the Communist Bloc countries who were tied to the Soviet Union. I was not disappointed in my expectations; colossal changes have begun in Eastern Europe and in the Soviet Union itself. There is no other explanation for these unequivocal and profound changes except the Soviet defeat at the hand of our Mujahideen.
This was a natural phenomenon, a
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
5