
increasing their troops and expanding airbases.
The bases are so located that Russian warplanes could easily reach the Indian Ocean and the Persian Gulf within a few minutes. It is plain that this expansionism threatens many 01C and countries of the free world. — a threat which can only shatter the dreams of friendship with Moscow that are entertained by some Muslim countries.
Whether the OIC plays a defensive role or none at all, it is now clearcut that Moscow has not responded positively to the resolutions of the OIC, NAM, the UN and other international fora.
The Kremlin has been trying to create an optimistic atmosphere about the Afghanistan crisis by promoting the idea of a so-called peacefull settlement under the auspices of the UN special envoy Mr. Diego Cordoviz.
If members of the international community are going to allow themselves to be deluded by such a masquerade then it will only further isolate the Mujahideen in their continuing struggle against an evil oppressor
and will encourage the Russians to take similar imperialistic action against other small countries all over the world.
The attitudes of certain Muslim Countries like Syria, Libya, South Yemen Algeria and Iraq, and the representative of the PLO, who have expressed reservations about the resolution on Afghanistan, passed at Fez, are deplorable.
Syria's attitude is particularly shame full as its representative impudently said that the vacant Afghanistan seat at the OIC should be given to the quisling government in Kabul.
The truth is if the above mentioned governments are taking a servile attitude towards Moscow in return for the Russian arms, what makes the PLO to evince antagonism towards the Mujahideen of Afghanistan. Whereas the people of Afghanistan have always supported the Palestinian cause.
It is also regrettable that the vacant Afghanistan seat has not been given to the Mujahideen despite of the fact that all the parties of Mujahideen are united. In the past members of the OIC refused to give the seat to the Mujahideen on the grounds that the parties were disunited.
The Islamic unity of the Afghan Mujahideen for the first time sent a delegation to the OIC representing all parties but due to the reluctancy of some friends of the Mujahideen even the question of allocating the vacant seat was not included in the agenda. Had, at least, the OIC recognized the mujahideen as the sole representative of their nation, it would have facilitated their recognition by the world community and other fora.
It is certain that the Russians would not change their intransigent posture by mere resolutions. However, there is only one alternative by the adoption of which effective political pressure could be exerted on the Russians to withdraw their forces from Afghanistan. This effective tool would be the recognition of the Afghan Mujahideen by the coming QIC summit this year.
Since the Jihad in Afghanistan is a unique example of the liberation of the Muslim Ummah if not propped up by the Muslims in the world, its long run repercussions would prove catastrophic for the very existence and independence of the Muslim countries.
6
The Mujahideen Monthly