The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991	^
The near total destruction of communism as a potent global ideological force, has infact buttressed Washington questionable declaration of building a new global order.
The West should with all humility and diligence, be grateful to Mr. Grobechev for awarding it this unique opportunity through an ill-conceived perestroika and a poorly executed glasnost. Moscow may never be what it used to be ag ain as one of the most important capitals on our planet or at least for some years to come and the obituary of Marxism which courageously signed by the Mujahideen in Afghanistan has indeed sealed permanently the role of communism in global ideological struggle.
The daily confidence that beams uninteruptedly from the White House, is therefore understandable. President Bush throughout his Desert Shield-and-Storm operations did repeatedly try to carry the apparently innocent American populace with him on the necessity of restructuring the world geo-political order so much as to successfully protect Western interests around the globe at least for our own age.
What exactly Mr. Bush envisages for the world and consequently for hum anity including unborn genertations ahead, is an arrangement whereby a new socio-political solar system would be constructed having Washington alone as its undisputable centre and around which all other capitals in the world are to revolve. The gravitational force to keep every planet in position is the sum of political terrorism plus dollar-diplomacy. Here, the White House and Pentagon would not only play the tragic triple roles of being the plaintiff, prosecutor and jury at the same
time through the sheer use of sophisticated military arsenals and massive armed intervention as in the Persian Gulf but also fulfil their primary duty of serving as the most formidable guarantor of capitalism in the next inevitable ideological showdown.
Though the next victim to bear the brunt of another Western dictated U.N...” imperial peace-fire” and “humanitarian” economic sanctions is yet to be publicly identified by name, but all indications strongly point to the so-called Muslim militant fundamentalism. Till date, nothing has frightened Western leaders nor threatened Zionist controlled capitalist system more than Islamic resurgence.
Well, George Bush as an elected president of an independent nation, and capitalism as a contemporary ideology competing for dominance on earth and maybe on the moon and s tars, do retain the implicable rights of laying bare their visionary plans and telling us what exactly their cherished hopes are, on the common world we all live in. Here, as in other places, the rule of the game mustbe obeyed. You can’t destroy the liberty and freedom of other nations in the name of democracy. This is a contradiction in mode and implications. If such a basic and obvious line is not drawn between what the West sets as its aims and what more than 80% of the world sees as its right then the result would surely be catastrophic.
We must accept the natural distinctions between the goals and methods. If both are not complemetary in operations, they must never be anti-thesis of each other or else Nazist and other fascist ideologies would have got the best justifications in trying to forcefully subjugate other so-called sovereign states regardless of all accepted international norms. The on-going effects of
shameful diplomatic manipulations of a supposedly respectable body of international communities presently prosecuted by the self appointed champions of fundamental human rights, and its subsequent outrageous political terrorism of the Third World, through draconian resolutions are what makes the whole Washington New World Order questionable.
Many puzzles could be raised here: Will the oppressed people on our planet willingly accept such audacious impositions? Will revolutionary movements all over the world allow themselves to be intimidated by brute mechanical military superiority, backed by a virtually empty shell of an over-inflated ideological balloon, which is ready to burst at the smallest frictional exposure to concentrated ideological challenge? These are infact the real issues and care must be taken in not laying the foundation for another World War by all means.
The idea of a new global structure is as excellent as it was old. What matters actually is the unresolved questions of whose order? For all men or for a clique of rulers? For the good of a particular country or group of nations or for the benefit of the entire human race including future generations?
To be able to resolve these paradoxes is to understand the fundamental Islamic revolutionary message that keeps revibrating in many places and in different forms through-out ages. The struggle will continue and our globe today too is a witness to this bitter reality. Let Washington say what ever it wants. Nobody can deny these Allah-given rights of expression and ambition awarded to H is creatures. B ut in practical life it is not what today is that counts, but what tomorrow will be. In Allah therefore we put our trusts. ||;tl