
The Mujahideen , April!may, 1990


hostility towards Muslims and joined the Mujahideen ranks. Najib’s brother Seddiq and Gen. Zarif (head of Najib’s presidential palace, cabinet and Cencom security) were treated in accordance with the same declaration. They were granted asylum and were not put to trial despite their Communist background and their past collaboration with the invading Russians in massacring the Muslims.
The Beloved Prophet (pbuh), after the conquest of Makkah, bestowed an honor on the ex-commander-in-chief of the infidels, Abu Sufyan, in declaring his house a secure and safe haven, and even said that any one who took refuge in Abu Sufyan’s house would be secure and safe. Addressing the POWs he said: “you can go away, you are free! ”
Thus the general amnesty declared by Mujahideen has not been a propaganda tactic to deceive the enemy, but was an adherence to the Sunnah, for the implementation of which we are obliged. Why did the Prophet forgive Abu Sufyan? Why did he accept the conversion of Khaled who had been responsible for the martyrdom of 70 of the Prophet ’ s esteemed companions, and the defeat of Muslims in the Battle of Uhud in which the beloved Prophet himself sustained severe wounds?
The HI A has acted in accordance with this Sunnah.
Those whom the HI A has granted asylum are offering daily Salat (prayer), are fasting, declare to be Muslims, have confessed their dark past and place stress on the formation of an elected Islamic government.
Qur’an-e Hakim, in regard to a polytheist (Mushrek) who soughtasylum with the Muslims, says:
“If one amongst the Polytheists Ask thee for asylum,
Grant it to him.
So that he may hear the Word Of Allah ; and then escort him To where he can be secure That is because they are Men without knowledge.”
(At-Taubah - 6)
A faithful Mujahid’s high ambitions bind and oblige him to fight decisively and relentlessly those who are fighting him and are creating hurdles in the way of Islam, but he behaves generously and gentlemanly towards a person who has abandoned fighting and seeks asylum with him. We should avoid mean and base behavior which is not suitable to the character and the high ambitions of a dedicated Mujahid.
A discerning Mujahid and a knowledgeable missionary even respects those who are frustrated with war and do not fight the Mujahideen; such as those who have quit collaborating with the
enemy and do not want to be a party in the war any more, not to mention those who declare that they are joining the Mujahideen to fight against the real enemy, and seek asylum from Mujahideen as Muslims.
Unfortunately some of our friends, instead of making a judgement regarding the Afghan issues and the attitudes of the parties involved, as sincere Muslims, take sides with particular parties and defend the unfair and unjustifiable attitudes of theirchosen parties. Moreover they interpret the just and fair stands of the other parties in a
biased malicious manner and spread propaganda against them.
The recent uprising was predicted by the HIA a few months in advance and the HIA was making preliminary preparations for it It was discussed with other parties’ leaders that the army was going to revolt against the Kabul regime; that, after the takeover, the cabinet of the incumbent party Cencom members will be handed over to Mujahideen for trial; then a council will be formed consisting of impartial officers and the Mujahideen commanders operating around Kabul. Elections will be conducted under the auspices of the Election Commission consisting of members of the seven
parties within six months, after which power will be transferred to an elected government.
Some of our friends on the signal from envious leaders interpreted it as a “coalition” between the HIA and a faction of the ruling party, and began efforts to the instill doubts into Muslims’ minds and to create confusions and suspicions.
Actually the story is quite different; the HIA has fought both factions in the front lines. Islamic Da’wah and armed struggle was begun
Page 13