RFGHRN HEUS UOl.MI, HO.9, 1/5/ 196? PRGE 9
familiar with the Afghans language, religion and way of life. They are closely watched not to make contacts with Afghans. Under these circumstances false propaganda works The Soviets' propaganda is launched to minimize the chances of their soldiers desertion or surrender during active combat
This explains why the Soviet pilot jumped into the fire instead of surrendering to the Mujahideen . This also explains why there are so few deserters and prisoners from the Red Army at the hand of the Mujahideen Soviet propaganda and their soldiers' ignorance about the Resistance has stopped the majority of the Soviet soldiers from ending a criminal war and leaving the army. They do not know that some of their fellows who chose to desert or surrender were given a choice of staying with the Mujahideen or go where they liked
                                  TWO COMMANDERS ASSASSINATED
 Aamer Gholam a prominent commander from Harakat Inqilab Islami was assassinated' a month ago. He had a base in Foloul area in Nehrin district. He was co-operating with the Mujahideen from Jamiat in their efforts to bring unity among the Mujahideen in the area
 The exact cause of the assassination was not known but difficulties inside his own party could be a factor in his assassination. All the Mujahideen in the area, especially the Mujahideen from Jami at Islami were shocked when heard the sad news of his death. The sad demise of Aamer Gholam is a loss to the cause of Jehad,
 It also has been reported that 3 weeks ago Commander Abdul Wadood, Hezb Islami commander in Keshm district of Badakhshan province was assassinated. The assassins are from the local people but the motive behind the action is not known.
 Commander Abdul Wadood was the younger brother of late Dr. Umar one of the students leaders in the Islamic movement who was executed by the Daud regime. Wadood's death is a loss for the resistance.
                     CROSS-BORDER OPERATION WHICH THE SOVIETS ADMIT
                                                 •
 In the last few month, the Soviet news media has admitted that Mujahideen recently have made at least two attacks inside the Soviet territory Such attacks have also been repored by the Mujahideen.
 Let us see what is the nature of such attacks and how serious they could be from the resistance point of view? And Why the Soviet media isadmitting the occurance of such incidents?
 Attacks launched inside the Soviet territory are of a limited nature They are small scale and happen occasionally. We do not know of any major planned operation against the Soviet territory The reason is simple The Soviets try to give the impression that their invasion of Afghanistan is an act of self-defense to protect the Central Asian Republics against ideological and direct military threats Even some analysts have considered this fear to be a major factor in their decision to invade Afghanistan.
 Repetition of large scale military operations inside the Soviet Union can be used to justify their naked invasion. While the Mujahideen have the military capabilities to carry out larger attacks inside the enemy territory, they have limited themselves to fighting the enemy inside Afghanistan to expose the expansionist nature of the Soviet invasion
 Isolated and small scale attacks inside Soviet territory can be the work of some local commanders who resort to such actions after watching Soviet atrocities against their people