                  IN THE NAME OF ALLAH
 :     Published lortaightly by jami'sit HUmiAfgliasistMi
                    • - - ”m r- J“'v "" ■
 Val 4, No 10                                     May 15. 1988
Soviets kill civilian Af ghans
       AMNESTY International has accused the Soviet Union j and the poppet regime in Kabul of gross violations of human rights in Afghanistan.
       This has been stated in the annual report of Amnesty International which was published two weeks ago.
       The report which is based on interviews with refugees says that the Soviets and puppet troops ! have seized and killed ! several civilians who were [ on their way to Pakistan as refugees.
       The report has also documented cases in which j Soviet and DRA troops have ■ executed civilians without j trials.
       Amnesty International I which is a noble-prize 1 winner, has reported that a j large number of political | prisoners have been i transferred to the army to j light against the Resistance.
 ;         The report on
 ! violations of human rights in J Afghanistan has been sent to the Soviet government and the puppet regime in Kabul. Amnesty has asked Moscow i and Kabul to try those j responsible for the killing
 of civilians and committing other atrocities against them.
   The Resistance has welcomed the report but believes that it does not fully reflect the grave situation existing in the country.
   Amnesty hopes for the improvement of human rights situation in Afghanistan but Resistance sources say that they do not expect any improvement before the Soviet forces have left the country and a truly representative government has been established.
  Mujahideen
                                            forgive
  communists
   COMMANDER Ismael of Herat, asked all DRA forces to surrender to the Mujahideen under an amnesty he announced on March the 14th.
   The decision was taken in a meeting of religious scholars. The U leraas assured them that the lives and properties of the people joining the Mujahideen will be protected.
 JAMI'AT
  LEADER
 SUPPORTS
  POLISH
 WORKERS
  THE AFGHAN Resistance fully sympathizes with the struggle of the Solidarity Movement for better living conditions and more democratic freedoms.
  This was stated in a message sent by Prof.B.Rabbani. Leader of Jami'ai Islami Afghanistan, to the Solidarity Movement in the wake of their new phase of struggle.
  Prof. Rabbani said that the Afghan Resistance has had the moral support of the Solidarity Movement in its struggle from the occupation of the Soviet forces and getting rid of the puppet Communist regime.
   We are about to achieve our total victory very soon and hope your struggle will also achieve its goals, ‘ said Prof. Rabbani.
  It should be mentioned here that the Solidarity’ Movement has been a strong supporter of the Afghan cause and even has sent a good-will delegation to the fighting fronts to pass its solidarity message to the Mujahideen.
  Polish Communities all over the world have shown their solidarity to the Afghan struggle.