AFGHANews Vol 5, No 11* June 1,1989, page @
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Com.Sayed Sher Ali
Commander Sayed Sher Ali, a wrestler, horse rider, hunter and mechanic, was bom 38 years ago in a family with a rich anti-Russian background
His father Haji Qurban was 15 years old when he escaped from central Asia along with his family. His grandfather was a Tajik Mujahid who fought for 13 years against the Soviets to liberate Tajikistan. "His grandfather was a gunsmith who escaped from Bukhara, crossed Amu Darya in the middle of a horrible night and lost two children in the wild waves of the river before he arrived in Takhar. The Afghan government arrested him to please the new Soviet government,n said his cousin, now living in Peshawar. "The Government of Afghanistan thought he was the legendary Ebrahim Beg, the leader of anti-Soviet Movement in Bukhara," said his cousin.
His father, now 80 years old, is still helping his son. His father has been a source of. encouragement to Shef Ali.
"Commander Sher Ali started the fighting with the same gun that his grandfather fought the Russians with," remarked his cousin.
Commander Sher Ali went to school and studied up to fifth ^grade to learn how to read and write. Then he worked in his father's small dark workshop to make money, to learn how to repair guns and to help his father.
"Early in the morning Sher Ali was among a band of wrestlers practicing to become a champion in wrestling," said his representative in Peshawar. "He was indeed a strong man." Sher AH's family decided to go to Ptd-e-Khumri where they could open
e-Ghori, where 16 communists were killed or wounded and two captured. His Mujahideen seized 20 weapons. The sub-district was liberated and Mujahideen moved into the town and started to work among the people. In a small council held in 1979, Mujahideen elected Sher Ali as Pule-Khumri district commander. In 1980 they all joined Jami'at I si ami Afghanistan.
In the past nine years, Sher Ali has participated in many small and big operations against the Soviets and the communist regime. His operations in 1985 and 1986 woe the most successful ones. In a defensive operation commanded by Sher Air more than 100 Russian and puppet regime soldiers were killed or wounded, a dozen tanks were destroyed and a lot of weapons were seized Mujahideen lost eight men. In the fall of 1986 he launched an operation against government posts located at Surkh Kotal, in which Sher All's Mujahideen destroyed four government post and captured 60 militiamen.
Commando- Sher Ali has good re-jations with the Supervisory Council of the North through Commander Mullah Shams from Baghlan city. His relations with other Mujahideen parties are also good
He has built three Madrasas in the last five years. He has created a Council of commanders and Ulema to deal with day to day problems.
Commander Sher Ali is well respected by the people. He has lost one brother who was his group commander in the war. He is married and has seven children..
TwoShia groups decide to end hostility
After two rounds of talks between Shoora Ittifaq Afghanistan and the eight-party Coalition the two sides agreed to avoid internal clashes and strengthen the joint armed struggle against the Kabul regime to establish an Islamic system.
They also agreed to send a high level delegation to Afghanistan to create consensus among groups and to prevent internal tension.
The agreement was signed by Ali Jan Zatudi from Eight-party Coalition and Ali Mehdavi from Shoora.
Some of the radical parties in the Coalition, especially Nasre, had severe difficulties with Shoora Ittifaq, which is a traditional party. These differences sometimes led to clashes over the control of territory. Shoora has remained out of Coalition because of the opposi don of the radical groups to its entry.
Benazir for removal of Soviet legacy
Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto has called for the removal of Soviet in stalled regime to pave the road for the formation of a non-aligned and broad based government in Afghanistan, APP reported.
At the end of her visit to Turkey Ms. Bhutto said to reporters that the symbol of the Soviet rule still continues in Afghanistan, a reference to Najibullah's .government.
She said that 800 to 1000 Afghan refugees enter Pakistan .daily to escape the war.
Unprecedented destruction in Salang
From Page (1)
When die communists took oyer, Sher AK was stiU working in the workshop. His father was the first who encouraged his son to take part in the antt-communlst battle: His father provided him and his first 20 companions with guns and ammunition.
They were the same guns that they had brought with them from Bukhara. At the beginning, Sher Ali had the support of his relatives in the armed struggle. He established his base in Dahna-e-Ghori mountains a sub-district of Puli-e^ Khumri in May .1978.
In a year's time, Sher Ali was able to expand his base and increase the number of his Mujahideen to 90. His first military operation was attacking the communists headquarters in Dahna-
Salang river,” wrote Mr. Bums, "are little compared to the destruction that Soviet and Afghan troops have wrought above the road. On either side of the gorge that runs through the 15,000-foot mountains are dozens of ancient villages that have been bombed, rocketed, and shelled into oblivion."
He saw at least 40 villages along the 12-mile stretch to the settlement at Haijan where not a single house was standing.
An Afghan officer told the correspondent that the devastation of the villages occurred progressively in the 10 years of fighting, as guerrillas occupied the villages and Soviet and Afghan government forces battled to uproot
them.
But, soldiers who accompanied a group of Western reporters up the Salang highway from Jabul Seraj raid that much of die destruction occurred in the final weeks before February 15, when the Soviet Union withdrew the last of its troops from the war. Fearing attacks on its retreating columns by guerrillas hiding in the villages, Soviet commanders approved bombing and artillery barrages against the villages and other potential guerrilla hideouts.
The account Of this reporter confirms the report of Mujahideen, who earlier reported the event in full detail.
****