AFGHANews Vol7, No 6, March 15,1991, page
Balkh Province sitrep
This article is based on an interview with Commander Ata Mohammad, the deputy provincial chief of Jami'at Island in Balkh province. He is currently visiting Peshawar.
Ata Mohammad, 28, was born in a Tajik trading family in the city of Mazar. He became affiliated with the Islamic movement when he was a student. After graduation from Bakhtar High School in 1981, he joined the armed struggle. He is a great admirer of the late Zabihullah, the founder of the Mazar resistance; he has demonstrated his leadership stills in war and peace. The Mazar front operates under the umbrella of the Supervisory Council, led by Ahmad Shah Masood.
Commander Ata Mohammad
The death of a hero could be demoralizing and even fatal. The untimely death of Commander Zabihullah in 1981 was a major challenge to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Balkh Province. Although the incident did not cause major damage to the resistance, it slowed its growth. Zabihullah had established the foundation of organized resistance, a blueprint for his Mujahideen to follow after his death. They managed to keep unity among themselves, choose a new leadership and slowly but steadily expand their influence.
In recent years, Jami'at Islami in Balkh has introduced some changes in its military organization. The reorganization and training of the Mujahideen have had a positive effect on the performance of the Mujahideen on the battlefield.
•After the Soviet troop withdrawal, military operations against the enemy intensified, hi a short time, two districts were liberated and three battalions of the enemy were captured. These victories forced the Kabul regime to replace the provincial head of KHAD (the regime secret police). He was Gul Agha, a very.clever man who had succeeded in infiltrating the ranks-of some of the less-well-organized resistance parties.
In addition, to the local defensive forces, Jami’at has created several battalions. Each battalion has 450 men who are trained inside Afghanistan.
Although the Mujahideen of Mazar have high morale and a strong will to fight the communists, their main problem is lack Of ammunition and weapons. They have to fight carefully because these supply shortages. A reduction in outside assistance, long supply lines and defects in the system of distribution are some of reasons for the shortages. . *
Economic difficulties also limit the military growth of the Mujahideen. The agricultural-based local economy
has been badly damaged by war, drought and insects. The Mujahideen cannot expect the local population to give them all the assistance they need.
Jami'at, the largest Mujahideen party in Balkh Province, has good relations with the other Mujahideen parties, except for commander Juma of Hezb Islami who has cut off the irrigation water for three districts since last sum-. mer. The people and their animals in these districts are suffering as a result.
The incident has given the Kabul regime a propaganda tool to use against the Mujahideen. Hezb's leadership has been informed of this matter, and other Mujahideen leaders also have promised to help, but so far this crisis has not been solved. Juma Khan controls some villages in Chimtal District and has about 300 armed men.
Jami'at's problems with Harakat (Mohammadi's group) have been solved. Relations between the two parties were tense in thepast due to subversive activities of Maoist elements (Pro-Chinese communists originally belonging to the Shola-i-Javed party) who had infiltrated the local Harakat party. Maoists who had come from other parts of Afghanistan pretended, to do medical work. Meanwhile they stirred up problems between the Mujahideen in a bid to gain influence. All of them have left the area, except for one known locally as Dr. Kachalou. He is now working with Harakat (Mohseni's party).
Maoists were responsible for the death of Commander Zabihullah.
All seven parties based in Peshawar maintain a presence in Balkh. About five percent of the population of the province are $hia. The Shias have organized their own parties. Harakat (Mohseni) and the Iran-based Wahdat party are the two main groups.
The economy of the province is tied to agriculture. Most of the farms are rain-fed. Due to dry weather during the past 4 years and damage to wheat crops by Sunn pest beetles, farm pro-
duction has decreased considerably. Prices of essential foodstuffs have risen very high.
The UN has distributed some food, but it has not been sufficient to have much of an impact on the situation. Jami'at has distributed ,300 tons of wheat and sugar donated by UN in the liberated areas. Other Mujahideen parties have also distributed some wheat. The Mujahideen believe that 80% percent of the UN aid has been distributed in regime-controlled areas. The UN sent survey teams to study ways of combating Sunn pest beetles, but no practical work had started.
ICRC was allowed to visit the liberated area. It donated some medicine to the two Mujahideen hospitals in Sholgarand Khulm.
The Mujahideen of Jami'at have been able to offer medical services to the local people. They have established two hospitals and several clinics. These hospitals are supplied with medicine donated by Western and Arab relief organizations in Peshawar. Most of the doctors and nurses working in Mujahideen hospital and clinics are local people. There are a few doctors from Kabul. Some Arab doctors are also help. One of Jami'at’s hospitals was founded by a MSF, a french relief organization, in the early years of Jehad.
Jami'at Islami has opened more than 100 primary schools; 40 of them are funded by Peshawar-based organizations. One of the schools in Sholgar has 400 students. Recently two primary girl's schools have also opened. Jami'at has opened some madrasas and plans to open a new madrasa with 300 students .in Sholgar.
The Mujahideen control all of Keshinda, Aaq Kooprek, Chaikent anc Shoor Taipa and most of each of the other districts. The regime presence in these districts is limited to control of a few villages.
The Kabul regime fully controls