AFGHANews Vol 8, No 6, March 15,1992, page @
limited. Basically, what you have to do is to report what people tell you. For instance, I reported the army mutiny in Mazar-i- Sharif based on conversations with diplomats.
The problem is that most people there, whither they are aid workers, diplomats or other journalists, have a certain sympathy for die regime — if only because, at least, it is a regime. At least they know who the boss is.
A lot of people, your sources of information, are genuinely concerned and afraid of Islamic fundamentalism, as they see it. People are concerned about narcotics trafficking.
For these reasons, almost everybody that you meet and talk to in Kabul, even the very realistic ones, and the very honest ones, can always be suspected of a bias — perhaps unconscious —in favor of the regime on certain issues. This includes me.
Perhaps the biggest threat to a Western journalist is his background. Most Western journalists tends to be, by nature of the profession, very liberal and idealistic. Western liberal values are our stock in trade. So there tend to be built-in negative feelings, a tendency to take the regime's constant warnings of extremism and extremists at face value without stopping to think, what do they really mean? and who are they talking about?
Q« How was food and fuel situation in Kabul?
A. There was no shortage of food or fuel while I was there. But they are quite expensive. Fuel was getting cheaper. In the second half of January the price of gasoline fell from almost 7,000 Afghanis per gallon to 4,000. The price of diesel and kerosene dropped correspondingly. Presumably, the fuel that regime and the private traders had bought from Central Asia was reaching the market in Kabul. Wheat was arriving, but not much. Out of half a million tons of wheat that the private sector wanted to import, less than 10 percent of that had arrived by mid-February.
Oddly enough, the problem was not getting it through chaos in the Afghan countryside. The problem was getting it through chaos in the former Soviet Union. Prices (of transport) ace very high. Wheat is also coming from the resistance areas in the countryside but transportation costs are high there too.
Q. Do the people in Kabul have electricity? What about foreigners living in Kabul?
A. I was probably among the luckiest. Not only I did live in Wazir Akbar Khan, where there is regular supply of electricity, but our street was next to Radio Afghanistan and like them, we had almost always had power.
But some other people, even in Wazir Akbar Khan, had electricity only a few hours a day. Parts of the city might get electricity two or three hours a week. An Afghan friend living in Khair Khana had all sorts of fancy electronic appliances but could not use them because his house had no electricity most of the time.
Q. What did the ordinary people .in
Kabul complain about the most?
A. Just like America, everything revolves around economic problems. Everybody wants peace because they are painfully aware that the economic disruption, shortages and inflation are all the result of chaos caused by the war in the countryside.
Everybody talks about die good old days. This is one of the reasons for sympathy the people have for Zahir Shah. I call it the Eisenhower effect. Eisenhower was a president who knew when to let well enough alone. As a result he got credit for everything dial continued to go well. Things were certainly a lot better under Zahir Shah than they are now. He is a symbol of the time when things were easier and better.
The people talk about inflation, the rising price of everything and how hard it is to buy enough to eat. One day at eleven o'clock in the morning, I passed by a bakery. There was a long queue to buy bread. I talked to an 12-year old girl who had waited in the line for two hours and had to wait at least for two more hours to buy ten pieces of bread. Everything is difficult
Q. Did you visit outside Kabul? If yes, where?
A. I am ashamed to say I did not get outside Kabul very much. I did go to Tangi Waghjan in Logar. It was a "guided tour" by government officials. It was very interesting. I think I am the first Western journalist to go to Tangi Waghjan who was also there with Mujahideen when it was under Mujahideen control. I remember being with some Mujahideen who were attacking a convoy in the summer of 1988. There . were helicopters shooting at the Mujahideen who were trying to launch rockets at the Iconvoy. The security posts were mortaring us. The convoy made it by but the Mujahideen extracted their pound of flesh. There were some burning vehicles left behind. The road was mostly under control of the Mujahideen. The government had to make long detours.
This time, there was no fighting. Everything was in government hands. We rode in a vehicle most of the way without any armed guards. It was like a tourist excursion. I was amazed how tightly the government had managed to bring this little area south of Kabul under its control.
Q. Did you see any rocket attacks against Kabul while you were thae? How did the ordinary people react to the attacks?
A. I heard 30 to 40 rockets landing in our side of Kabul on December 27, the 12th anniversary of the Soviet invasion. The people are angry and bitter about them. From what I saw' they are completely pointless.
But it is certainly not appropriate for a journalist to say that they only kill women and children. The fact is that the government doesn't publicize military casualties. Some of these rockets may very well be falling on military targets in the city and we just do not know about it They publicize the civilian casualties.
Q. Knowing the Mujahideen and now visiting Kabul, is there a chance of compromise between the Mujahideen and the
regime?
A. If there were just two warring fac-1 tions, I would have a lot more hope. But I there are hundreds of factions. What I am I concerned about is that the divisions within each of the two larger factions — the government on one hand and the Mujahideen on the other — are so great that interested parties with a very narrow outlook, within those larger groups, would be inclined for their own self-interest to undermine any| agreement that the leaders of the larger factions are able to arrive at. I am not saying1 that there will not be a settlement. But there I are very serious difficulties. I am not sure that all the diplomats and the UN people working so hard to bring about a solution are fully aware of the many pitfalls in their | path.
It is clear in the minds of people in the I government that a lot of resistance leaders are people that they can deal with as individuals. They draw a distinction between extremists and everybody else. Some ordinary people you talk to do not have much personal acquaintance with the resistance. [ All they know is that "Mujahideen looted | my truck."
They admit that government militiamen also loot trucks. They blame the gov-! eminent for that. The government is not popular. It is only slightly more popular than the Mujahideen. That is because there is an order. Things are more predictable with a strong organized government. They are not interested in ideology and constitutional law. Their priority is order, security and economic issues.
Q, Did you meet any Russian diplo-
mats in Kabul? What were they thinking
about the situation?
( •
A. I met with the press officer of the
former Soviet Union. He was an Uzbek and spoke very good Persian. Russian diplomats | are well-informed about what was going on I in Kabul and in the countryside. They are open. Changes in the former Soviet Union | account for a lot of their openness. As individuals, they do not hesitate to admit the mistakes of the past It saw a Soviet-made film while I was there. The film was made I during the withdrawal of Soviet troops. It was a documentary explaining what a terrible mistake the invasion was. The film can-1 not be described as pro-Mujahideen, but it I is anti-war.
Q. The Iranian embassy is quite active in Kabul. Did you observe' anything special when you were there?
A. As an American, I was surprised I to see dial Iranian diplomats were so open. They made it clear that they feel, at least for the time being, there was no alternative to the Najib regime. They also made it clear | that they would rather he would go.
The Iranians talk about humanitarian I issues. They talk about suffering of people I in Hazarajat. They made it clear that if any Muslim Tajik or Pushtbon on the government side or in the resistance areas wants, help, they would help. They said they | would not rule out helping anybody.