AFGHANews Vol 6, No 5, March 1,1990, page ©
Editorial		A
V 			
our
Soviet Muslim brothers
Disturbances in the Central Asian republics of USSR and Azerbaijan represent a revolt against communism and a popular reaction against the seven-decade-long oppressive rule of Moscow.
The communist system harmed all people in the Russian empire, but its first victims were Muslim minorities in the South Caucasus and Central Asia.
Islam, being a way of life, asks its followers to oppose Godless systems and tyranny. For decades Muslims fought against Moscow. The Jehad of Immam Shamil in the Caucasus and the struggle of Muslims in Central Asia, called the 'Basmachi movement', were part of such a resistance by Muslims.
Under the communist system, the Muslim places of worship, their libraries, clergies, language and customs were not immune from attack by the state machinery.
Because of the bad treatment the Muslims received in Russia, their discontent with the system is natural.
People are looking for small excuses to express their long-suppressed anger with the system. Ethnic issues which were designed by Moscow leaders to divide the Muslims so that they could be ruled easily, now have become a catalyst for the expression of social, political and economic grievances.'
The Afghan resistance sympathize with the struggle of Muslims in the Soviet Union because of the religious, linguistic and ethnic ties between the two people and because Moscow is the common enemy of the two.
The Sympathy does not change the fact that the trouble has indigenous roots.
Some Westerners advise the Mujahideen not to create problems for Gorbachev by expressing support to the Muslims in Central Asia because they think Gorbachev is working for peace and he should be given a chance.
These people are looking at 'western face' of Gorbachev which looks humane and reconciliatory while his 'eastern face' is mean and inhumane. Gorbachev might have taken some steps towards peace in Europe, but his Afghan policy has been the promotion of war and imposition of the illegal communist regime of Najibullah on Afghans through this promotion.
He shows a compromising attitude towards demands by Baltic states but crashes the popular movements in Azerbaijan and Tajikistan.
Western countries have failed to criticize Moscow’s violent behavior in Azerbaijan and Tajikistan because they want to be nice to Gorbachev. If the same thing had' happened in other parts of the world or even in some other parts of die Soviet Union, it would certainly have provoked a strong international reaction.
The indifference of the Islamic countries in regard to the problems of Muslims in the Soviet Union is deplorable. Muslims all over the world should show their solidarity with the Muslims in the Soviet Union and they should make it clear to the Soviet leaders that the use of force against their brothem in faith will not be tolerated.
The Afghan resistance should play a leading rule in keeping the world informed about the situation in Cen&aLAsia-

close friend
Mohammad Elyas Saifi, 40, was born in Panjshir. His father, Abdur Ghiyas, was a school teacher. Elyas studied in primary school in Farkhar and Khawja-i-Ghar, where his father served as a headmaster.
He entered Teacher Training School in Kabul in the late '60s and became a member of die Parcham faction of the PDPA.
After graduation, he became a teacher in Takhar province. Elyas became an official of KHAD when the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, After serving for sometime in the headquarters of KHAD during which he also received training, he became the head of KHAD in Takhar province. During his service in Kabul he became closely connected to Najibullah who served as the chief of KHAD at that time.
Elyas was sent to Takhar for three major reasons:
1-	He grew up there and he knew the people.
2-	Since he was from Panjshir he was considered a good officer to fight against Masood's influence which had started to spread in the North.
3-	Since he was a veteran Parchami and a close associate of Najib, his presence in an area where other communist factions dominated was important for Najib.
He served many years in. Takhar and later became the head of KHAD for Takhar and Kunduz provinces. He was one of the few people who resisted the Mujahideen attack in Kunduz airport in 1988 until the Soviets sent their planes to bomb the Mujahideen out of the city which they had liberated.
He was the only person in his family fighting for the wrong cause. All his relatives are affiliated with the Mujahideen. His cousins are active fighters and one erf his cousin's was killed in the war two years ago. One erf his brothers served several years in jail foranti-regime activities.	1
The Kabul regime was shocked when he was killed in fighting on February 20 . He was given the rank of a General in recognition of his service for the regime and the Soviets. .
Elyas' death will have a negative effect on Najib's plans in the North because he does not have a qualified person to replace him.