AFGHANews Vol 8, No 16* August 15, 1992, page ©
Mujahideen's victory celebrated in Sydney
Afghanistan is moving fast to build the dream of an Islamic State in different dimensions, stated Mahmood Saikal, the Australian Representative of Afghan Mujahideen (JIA), on May 25, at a gathering attended by more than 120 invited guests.
The reception, held at Canberra’s Albert Hall, was organized by the Afghan Mujahideen (JIA) Australia office to mark the fall of the Kabul regime and the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
Mr Saikal said the month-old Islamic government had already performed well in reinstating the 'political credibility1 of Afghanistan as a free and Islamic country. He said Afghanistan’s request to jbin the six-nation regional organization for economic cooperation (OEC) was welcomed by OEC founders. Turkey, Pakistan, Iran, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan are members of OEC.
Regarding the Islamization of the social system, he said the vast majority of people in Afghanistan were ready for the full implementation of the Islamic Sharia, and that this was why the Islamic.government’s decrees have been received with joy. The previous week, several thousand bottles of alcoholic drinks, collected from the hotels and shops in Kabul, were broken in front of the public.
Another speaker in the function was the High Commissioner of Pakistan Mr. Bashir Babur. Congratulating the Mujahideen on their great victory, he said Pakistan will continue to assist Afghanistan in rebuild-
ing their ruined homeland after the 14-year-long war. He said the relationship between Pakistan and the Afghan Mujahideen #as unique.
The Charge d’Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Mr. Jawad Murad Khani, also made friendly remarks and welcomed r the Islamization of Afghanistan. He said that !during the Iran-Iraq war, the Foreign Minister of the former Soviet Union had told the Iranian Foreign Minister that his country was ready to withdraw its support of Iraq if Iran stopped supporting the Afghan Mujahideen. But of course Iran chose to continue supporting the Afghan Jehad.
The gathering was also addressed by an Australian political scientist, Dr. William Maley. Dr. Maley, who has written books and articles on the Afghan issue,' highlighted the tragic dimensions of the conflict, tie spoke about the physical and psychological damage on both sides of-the conflict during the 14-year lorig war.
Other prominent invited guests iq-. eluded the Egyptian ambassador, Adil Al-Khidri; General Consul of Saudi Arabia, Mr. Mohammad Saleh Al-Hedan; former health minister Senator Humphries; first secretary of the Russian Federation embassy, Mr. Andrei Komukhin; the first secretary of the British High Commission and the first secretary of the Turkish embassy, Mr. Ahmet Arda.
The function ended with prayers by the Imam of the Canberra Mosque, Amin al Hadi.
UNHCR supports returning refugees
. The UNHCR chief Sadako Ogata has assured President Burhanuddin Rabbani of UNHCR's commitment to facilitate voluntary repatriation of Afghan refugees and to assist in their urgent and immediate rehabilitation.
In a message sent to the president, she said the UNHCR office in Afghanistan was assisting the needs of both the returnees and the local population and providing the necessary rehabilitation assistance. The message made it clear that UNHCR contribution to this effort would to a large extent depend on the financial support it receives form the international community.
, The UN Secretary-General made an appeal on May 5 for US$180 mil-
lion to meet the need of repatriation of the refugees from Iran and Pakistan.
Ms. Ogata informed Prof. Rabbani that ten thousand or more Afghan refugees were returning daily to Afghanistan.
The' United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) is planning to open six new posts along the border with Afghanistan to cope with the increased number of repatriating Afghan refugees.
Refugees who surrender their ration cards are provided with 300 kilograms, of wheat and Rs. 3,300 ( Afs.-66,000) in cash at the posts.
The existing posts are not able to deal with increased number of returning refugees.
Security service head appointed
The Ministry of National Security was degraded to the Authority of National Security, which will be responsible to the President. Prof. Rabbani has appointed Mohammad Fahim as the head of this authority.
Fahim, 40, used to work as the Deputy Head of the Political Committee of the Supervisory Council, before the fall of Kabul to the Mujahideen. During 14 years of war, he has served in various posts under commander Masood. He is a graduate of Darul Uloom-i-Arabi, a religious college in Kabul.
The Leadership Council dissolved the Ministry of State Security immediately after the fall of the communist regime. Some days later, however, it was reactivated under the name of Ministry of National' Security. Prof. Mujaddidi gave the charge of this ministry to Hezb Wahdat, but other members of the Leadership Council did not agree to this because they were not consulted in advance.	|
General killed
General
Ghulam Rasool
Parwani, an officer of army intelligence, was killed along with two of his bodyguards when the vehicle carrying him was blown up by a mine in Karta-i-Parwan district of Kabul on July 31.	;
Some days before this incident. General Baba Jan, who played a key role in the overthrow of Najib’s regime, was attacked by gunmen. He escaped unhurt but his driver was killed.	*	i
It is believed that Hezb of Hikmatyar was involved in these terrorist actions:	|
Diplomat murdered
Abdul Ahad Wolosi, the head of the political department' of the foreign ministry, was killed by unidentified gunmen in Kabul, on July 26.
He belonged to the Khalq faction of the communist party , and during the Soviet ■ occupation of Afghanistan served as the governor of Ghazni and Balkh provinces. Later, he was appointed as the Charge d' Affairs in Bangladesh and then as the ambassador to East Germany. After the collapse of the Berlin Wall, he was called back to Kabul.