AFGHANews Vol 5, No 10t May 15,1989, page Q
vilians of Kabul. If in future we would learn that the government is still not distributing food to the civilians of Kabul we will probably have to impose a total block on the Salang.
Q. Some of the Pushtun leaders have told us that there is a rivalry between them and you for the taking of Kabul, and they are determined that victory lies with them and if necessary they are prepared to fight to stop your advance. How do you intend to confront this problem?
A. The war in Afghanistan began on basis of Islam, and thanks be to God, until now the Jehad has progressed on the basis of Islamic ideology and there is no place in Islam for questions of language or local patriotism. I take no account of Pushtu or Persian, nor of the North versus the South. We are all Muslims and we are all struggling to reach the same goal. The brothers gathered together in the Council of the North, have no time for this and we have no sense of rivalry with anyone over the taking of Kabul. As I said before we are trying to gather everyone together to bring a common center into being to form a united command and to attack Kabul all together.
I am in contact with most of the Pushtun commanders like Mawlawi Jalaluddin, Abdul Haq, Mawlawi Arsala, commander Anwar( of Jegdalik) who is a Pushtun and a member of the Shura Nizar and others.
Q. Some Pushtun commanders are determined to capture Kabul before your forces comedown from the North. What do you think of this?
A. Well first of all I must draw your attention to this point that it is ten years, and more than ten years, that war has been fought in Afghanistan. Different people from different areas have all taken part in this war and are armed. Each group has established itself in its own area and it would not be possible to bring about a radical change in Afghanistan if Kabul is taken only by one group, or, if only one party occupies Kabul it would be a mistake to think it could rule over Afghanistan. Q. The fighting between Jami'at and Hikmatyar's party is an old problem, and as we came to the Panjshir we saw that it continues. How do you consider the hostility to yourself on the part of Hihnatyar and his party?
A. In the past there was fighting between Hikmatyar's party on the one hand and all the other parties on the other. But praise be to God, such fighting has been lessened and this discord not longer exists on the same level as it used to. I do not deny that problems
exist at the moment, but these problems are not of an order to cause real concern. The fights you saw are mere local squabbles and it is very difficult to prevent such fights.
Q. Did you have direct talks with Hikmatyar , and if you did what were the results?
A. I have had no direct meeting with Hikmatyar, only Hikmatyar sent a delegation last year to the center of Shura Nizar. This delegation brought various suggestions with it. Of the three suggestions we rejected two and accepted one. The first suggestion was that the Shura Nizar should leave Jami'at and join Hizb, as this was unreasonable it was rejected. The second suggestion was that Shura and Hizb form a new party under a new name. This suggestion was also rejected. The third suggestion was that I should meet directly with Hikmatyar to discuss the end of hostilities between Hizb and Jami'at. As I have always wanted to stop these conflicts I got ready to meet Hikmatyar. Unfortunately after this meeting with the Hizb Island delegation, one of Jami'at Island's famous commanders called T^riq, who was in charge of the zone to the East of us, was murdered by a member of Hizb Island. This incident once again darkened our relationship and we then decided not to meet Hikmatyar. Even though we are not in touch with Hizb HQ, we are in touch with most of the . Hizb Island commanders.
Q. Najibullah's troops are successfully defending Jalalabad, has this caused a lowering of Mujahideen morale and a raising of the morale of government forces.?
A. On the contrary I don not accept that the government forces are making a successful defense of Jalalabad. As has been seen, the Mujahideen are day by day tightening their encirclement of Jalalabad and have been able to occupy one position after another. As far as I am informed, Najib’s entire experienced fighting forces have left Kabul for Jalalabad, and it was these new forces that was able to revive and strengthen the (government's) resistance,
Q. After the fifth meeting what decisions were taken for the taking of Kabul?
A. The decisions were not taken specifically regarding the taking of Kabul. The military decision was taken that those areas abandoned by the Soviets should be occupied by the forces of the Shura Nizar, and in that meeting it was decided to create an Islamic army of 10,000 men.
Q. Certain leaders accuse you of agreeing to a coalition government with Najib. Is this true?
• A. In the ten or more years that the war has been fought in Afghanistan, in this time individuals and Mujahideen groups have clearly proved themselves. The people as well as other Mujahideen well know which groups are prepared to collaborate, and which groups are not prepared to collaborate. In this respect, "I have said over and over again, I have noL been and am not prepared to countenance any collaboration with the Russians and never with Najib."
Q. What conditions would have to be met before you would.negotiate with Najibullah?
A, Dr. Najib and other members of the communist party are principally responsible for the misfortunes of Afghanistan. The communist party in Afghanistan was the sole cause for the bloodshed, and the continued existence of the party will guarantee the continuation of booldshed in this country. The sole condition for bringing this war to an end is that this party should be prepared to step down from power.
Q. You did not attend the Islamabad Shura. Is the provisional government valid? If not, what steps must be taken to form a government acceptable to all Afghans?
A. There is no doubt that the provisional government of the Mujahideen has many shortcomings. The most important failure of this government is that an important section of the Afghan population-that is our Shiite brothers have no share in this government.
Secondly when this meeting was called in Islamabad, it was claimed that most commanders in Afghanistan had been notified. That is not true, most commanders were not notified. For example I myself received an invitation to send representatives to this meeting only two days before it started. Thus many Mujahideen inside Afghanistan were unable to take part in this process.
Thirdly each party was given 60 votes. Whereas inside Afghanistan these parties' respective strengths differ greatly. There are some parties which have very strong groups inside Afghanistan, whilst others have hardly anything. In this case an equal distribution of votes is not just. In spite of al these shortcomings, for the sake of unity of Muslims, and in order to maintain a seamless unity of Mujahideen in these exceptional historical circumstances, the Shura Nizar endorses and supports this provisional government