                            N E W S
 26-12-19S5
 After severe clashes the enemy retreated from Daravvalley and the garrison of deraman was evacuated. Dara is a side valley of Fanjshir. 25^12-S5
 The enemy launched a winter offensive against iluj ahideen in Shemali. Mujahideen in Charikar, Jabulsaraj, Kohistan and Xapisa have resisted well and the enemy has suffered casualties. I To details have been given yet.
 Bombardment of Salang from air and ground continues during both night and day. One Jet was shot down in Nowoch village of Salang. The political Commissar of regiment 32 has been killed in recent fighting in the Panjshir.
 2-12-35
 Mujahideen of Jami'at in Kohistan attacked a security outpost of Gul-bahar Textile Factory. A big number of the enemy troops were killed or wounded. Two AK-47 guns were captured. One Mujahid was martyred during the operation.
 29-ll~85_
 Kujahideen of Jami'at Islarai ambushed an enemy convoy on Salang highway between Jabalsarj-Charikar section.
 Three APCs and 4 trucks were destroyed. Ten Soviet soldiers were killed and seven others were wounded and the road was blocked for one hour.
 3r12-85
 Mujahideen attaclced Charikar city with heavy weapons, 12 Communists •were killed end 20 others were wounded. All the puppet regime's offices in the city remained closed on that day.
                       /UjOTIjERuSOVIET_C^PyURED
                                 *
 Mujahideen of Jamiat in bazar captured a Soviet soldier in Marmui area in the first week of November. Ho more details have been given yet..
 TJayed Ahmad Jaxlanx, the leader of national Islamic Front of Afghanistan was chosen as the spokesman of the Islamic Alliance of Mujahideen of Afghanistan for 3 months, from January 1st 1935.
 He will lead the Alliance delegation to the Islamic countries (foriegn ministers conference) which is going to be held in Morocco,
 We wish him every success in his new job.
 Bagram is the biggest Soviet airbase in Afghanistan. Bagram in the past has been attaclced* from outside by I.uj ahideen or from inside by musiim officers.