AFGHANews Vol 7, No 16, August 15,1991, page Q
There was no communication system to connect us to the center. However, we posted some riders on the highway between Balkh and Dehdadi to relay our messages back and forth as quickly as possible. The messengers on horse back were called "chappar" by the local people.
One day after arrival at Balkh at three o'clock in the afternoon, a group of about 300 Russian soldiers, most of them mounted, took up positions in the brush close to the fort. Our men attacked them, and after four hours of fighting they withdrew in the middle of the night. Our casualties were ten killed and some wounded. Later it was understood that their retreat was a deceptive tactic to divert our attention from the main column of the enemy proceeding towards the city of Mazar.
I received a message from the division commando-, Sher Ali Khan, instructing me to come urgently to Dehdadi. While eaving behind some troops to protect the road, I and a battalion of soldiers from Kohdaman and Estalif proceeded towards Dehdadi. On the way to Dehdadi I received the news that the enemy soldiers had besieged our forces at Sia Gerd and martyred them all.
After the defeat of our forces in Sia Gerd, the Russian soldiers advanced to Mazar. They attacked the city from three directions. After crushing the resistance in several places, they entered the city. The governor escaped to Dehdadi. The Holy Shrine of Ali and the city of Mazar fell into the hands of the infidel Russian soldiers for the first time in the city's history.
I arrived in Dehdadi at the time of telephone conversation between the Division commander, Sher Ali, and Ghulam Nabi. Ghulam Nabi said: "King Amanullah Khan has bravely captured Kabul . The people of. Kabul have accepted him as their king. King Habibullah Khan has been killed. With the instruction from King Amanullah,
I have gathered Afghans living abroad and with the help of some Uzbak brothers from Soviet Union have captured
the city of Mazar without any resistance from the people. You should also give up and pledge your Biaat (allegiance ) to me."
Sher Ali responded that he would pass the message to other officers and would reply after consulting them.
An urgent meeting of high ranking officers was held at Dehdadi. Sher Ali informed the officers of Ghulam Nabi's treasonable capture of Mazar, with the help of Russian soldiers, and he read out the message Ghulam Nabi had sent from Mazar regarding the fall of King Habibullah Khan and the victory erf Amanullah. The officers decided that since the situation in Kabul was not clear and Ghulam Nabi had entered Mazar with the help of the foreign forces, which was an insult to Islam and their country, they would not give up.
In order to buy time to mobilize our forces, the meeting decided to ask Ghulam Nabi to allow our representative to go to Mazar and telegraph Kabul to see if the news of King Amanullah's return and Habibullah Khan's death were true, after which they would announce their decision. It was also decided that I should talk to Ghulam Nabi by telephone and convey the decision of the meeting to him. I was very interested in talking to a respected Afghan general like Ghulam Nabi Khan, to find out how he had been able to convince his conscience to rely on foreign forces in order to seize power. When we spoke he said I should personally convey to him the Biaat (allegiance) of the army at Dehdadi. This would, he said render me eligible for mercy from His Majesty King Amanullah.
"Where is His Majesty?" I asked. "(He is) wherever he is," he replied. I read out the message of the meeting to him. After a minute or two during which he talked to someone in a different language, he answered: "There is no need to send someone to Mazar to talk to Kabul." The line was cut.
To be continued
SAZA leader concedes defeat
A forma- Deputy Prime Minister of the Kabul regime and the chief of SAZA communist faction, Mahboobullah Kooshani, has said the summer's victories by Mujahideen in northeastern Afghanistan are signs of the regime's weakness rather than Mujahideen strength. He admitted, however, that Ahmad Shah Masood's recent gains in that region signaled Masood's growing political importance.
Returning from Faizabad , the provincial capital of Badakhshan, Kooshani said Kabul regime troops were not ready to fight.
He stated that the Kabul regime was politically weak in northeast Afghanistan because the people of the area believed that it was illegal and brought to power by the Soviet Union.
SAZA lost several erf its bases in Takhar to Mujahideen under the command of Ahmad Shah Masood.
OIC praises Mujahideen
The 20th Conference of Islamic Foreign Ministers has lauded the role of the Afghan Mujahideen in liberating their country, and has called for a comprehensive political solution of the Afghan issue.
The conference, in Istanbul, Turkey from August 4 through 8, supported UN efforts to find a political settlement to the issue and has recommended that OIC play an active role in fulfillment of this aim. It supported the efforts of the Mujahideen to form a broad-based government in Afghanistan.
The conference decided to contin ue humanitarian assistance to the Afghan refugees and work for the re-partriation and rehabilitation of the refugees in cooperation with Iran and Pakistan. It appealed to all member states to extend financial and moral support for the reconstruction efforts recommended by the	Islamic
Development Bank.
The Mujahideen woe represented at the conference by a five-member delegation headed by Prof. Rabbani.
Talking to VOA, Prof. Rabbani expressed his pleasure at the decisions taken on Afghanistan, which he sai( confirmed the position	of the
Mujahideen.
Prof. Rabbani said the tripartite conference held in Islamabad with the participation of Iran, Pakistan and the Afghan Mujahideen had been a usefu move before convening the OIC meeting. The Islamabad meeting had a positive effect on the decisions of the OIC conference regarding Afghanistan.
The Jami'at leader said Afghan issues will be on the agenda of the Islamic Foreign Ministers' meeting in Senegal, and may be included mi the agenda of the OIC summit as well.
He said, the views of the Mujahideen delegation were included in the final declaration of the conference.
Earlier, some circles had expressed doubt whether the OIC would invite the Mujahideen to attend die Istanbul conference. The Afghan Interim Government is a member of die OIC.
The Kabul regime, which was expelled from the OIC in 1980, wants to regain the Afghan seat with the help o' some its friends in that organization, Kabul asked the visiting Vice President of Syria to help the regime win back the Afghan seat in at the OIC.