AFGHANews Vol7, No 5, March 1,1991, page (B
This article summarizes a paper written by Prof. Rabbani under the title of "A glimpse into the achievements of Jami'at Island Afghanistan", published in the February 13th issue of Mujahid’, a weekly paper published by Jami'at Islami Afghanistan (JIA) in Peshawar.
In the political field
The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan shook the world like a bombshell. The world was dismayed and frightened by the incident and did not think that Afghanistan could be taken out of the Soviet dragon's jaws. They were worried about the Soviet advance beyond the borders of Afghanistan and were prepared to forget Afghanistan if Moscow was willing to content itself only with the invasion of Afghanistan.
Everyone thought that the resistance of Afghan people against the Soviet invaders was a short-lived endeavor and the defiant voices of Afghans would be silenced in a few days. Even Muslims, who are taught by their religion not to be disappointed, thought that liberation of Afghanistan from the occupation of the Soviet Union was only possible through a miracle.
But a group of faithful Afghans were confident about their final victory and the defeat of the Soviet infidels. They did not lay their arms aside, and continued their struggle until the Soviets were forced to admit defeat and withdraw their troops a decade later.
JIA was at the forefront a political campaign to deliver the voices of oppressed Afghans to the rest of the world. Prof. Rabbani, talking on behalf of the Afghan Mujahideen, told the OIC Foreign Ministers Conference in Islamabad that Afghans would fight their way to victory. He asked the international community to raise their voices against the Soviet aggression in Afghanistan and help the Mujahideen in their struggle.
Immediately after the Daud coup of 1973, JIA had warned the Muslim world about the danger of a communist takeover in Afghanistan. A booklet, palled "Afghanistan on the verge of falling into in communists' lap," was distributed to pilgrims in the Holy Land in 1975, describing Daud Khan as a bridge though which communists would take power in Afghanistan. The party also sent an open letter to President Daud and his ranking military officers warning them of the threat by the communists. They were encouraged to take preventive steps before it was too late..
Besides the armed struggle, JIA gave importance to the political activities of the Mujahideen. It believed that the Mujahideen's relations with the rest of the outside world should not remain an affair dealt with at the level of the secret organizations of the concerned countries. Despite strong propaganda attacks by some rival parties, JIA's leader took the initiative to visit the USA, Western Europe and some African countries to explain to the leaders of these countries the position of the Mujahideen on the issue. As a result of these trips a great deal of publicity was made for the cause of die Afghan Mujahideen.
HA's leader had the honor of representing the Afghan Mujahideen in die Islamic Summit in Morocco, and lqd the Mujahideen delegation in the OIC Foreign Ministers conference held in Cairo in 1990.
In its international. relations, JIA has followed a pragmatic and balanced policy
based on Islamic values and has avoided extreme politics. It has based its relations with die Islamic and non-lslamic countries on the interests of Muslims and has not made itself a party in tensions between countries. For example, it has not sacrificed its relations with Riyadh for ties with Teheran.
Since JIA puts special emphasis on relations with Muslims all over the world, it has tried to establish good relations with all Islamic movements.
It supports the struggle of those Muslims who fight for their liberation. This support is based on its principled position of helping oppressed people everywhere in the world. The Prophet of Islam (peace be upon him) has said: " If a Muslim does not care about the sufferings of his Muslim brothers, he does not deserve to be called.a Muslim." Support for Palestinian, Kashmiri and other oppressed Islamic people is part of our international policy.
JIA believed that the Soviet Union was the main party in the conflict with which a political settlement of the Afghan problem should be discussed. It opposed holding talks with the Kabul regime which was installed by the Soviets and served their interests. A bunch of communist criminals did not have the right to decide the future of Afghanistan.
The JIA leader led the first Mujahideen delegation in the talks with Yuli Vorontsov in Taif, Saudi Arabia. The Mujahideen delegation asked the Soviet side to leave Afghanistan unconditionally and allow its people to decide their future. When the Soviet side proposed participation of the communist regime in the future Afghan government, they were told that it was an internal problem of Afghans. The same way that the Soviets did not like the Mujahideen to propose the participation of opponents of the Soviet goverranent in power, Afghans rejected such proposals, winch were interference in their affairs.
Earlier, the Soviets were forced to sit around the table of negotiation with the Mujahideen in Panjshir and to ask for a cease-fire. This major victory was criticized by some short-sighted people in the Mujahideen's ranks, but later it proved to be the beginning of the final victory for Afghans.
JIA still believes that the key to solution of the Afghan problem is in the Soviets' hands. If they end their military and political interference in the affairs of Afghanistan, the issue will be solved.
JIA supported formation of the Mujahideen government to fill the vacuum after the Soviets troop withdrawal. Before the formation of the Advisory Council in Rawilpindi, JIA asked for the formation of such a Council in which people from all provinces were represented properly. It used to say that no section of the Afghan society should be left out. Representatives sent by JIA to the Council came from different provinces.
Despite the fact that JIA did not consider the Advisory Council representative of all sections of the society, it took part in the government formed by the Council in 'the bigger interest of the country. It supported the program of holding elections for a Loya Jirga and tries its best to make it successful. JIA/insists that efforts to include Shia par-tie# in the process should continue so that the result of the elections is acceptable to all.
JIA, however, proposes that election constituencies in any future election be reorganized based pn the number of voters rather the old administrative units. Hus step is necessary to give balanced representation to
all geographical areas and ethnic groups in the country.
JIA has been at the forefront of campaign for the unity of all the Mujahideen parties. Although the present Mujahideen parties either separated from JIA in exile or were created after the Soviet invasion, JIA has always welcomed close cooperation with them. It has given sacrifices for achieving this objective in the past and continue to do so in die future.
JIA signed an agreement with Hezb Islami recently and hopes to see it succeed. It supports the political and military unity of the Mujahideen and backs the programs of Council of Commanders to coordinate the Mujahideen military operations.
JIA has been opposed to Mujahideen infighting and propaganda war against each other. Except in one or two cases that JIA became a target of massive propaganda, it has not even defended itself against the propaganda attacks of the rival groups.
JIA refrained from writing about events which caused separation of some groups from the party in hope that one day they might return. This policy caused some confusion about the nature of these differences and in some cases the press presented the events in a distorted way.
In the military field
JIA has played a leading role in the armed struggle against the Soviets. Jehad started with popular uprisings all over Afghanistan. Mujahideen used primitive weapons. Such an uprising was necessary to show the enemy that the people of Afghanistan were united in their opposition to the invaders.
Realizing the need for training, JIA was the first party to establish a military academy. So far the school has trained more than 1400 officers, who have played a positive role in the military performance of the Mujahideen. It also organized short-term training classes to teach ordinary Mujahideen the use of arms and tactics.
JIA policy was to help the natural growth of strong fronts and strengthen the position of those commanders who showed qualities of leadership. There were some who thought that such a support might give a chance for individual commanders to become independent from tire party, but JIA ignored these warnings and let the young leadership have a natural growth not only in the military but also in tile political field. This policy proved useful and now JIA has the most capable commanders of Jehad and very strong bases in Afghanistan. This policy enabled people like Masood to spread their Influence.
Creation of the Islamic Army by the Supervisory Council, headed by Commander Masood, is a unique initiative in tite history of Jehad. This idea once was criticized by some Mujahideen parties but after the Soviet troop withdrawal everyone has become aware of the need for such an army. Every party is now busy building its own army.
Commander Ismail Khan, Martyr Zabihullah Khan, Martyr Afzali, Mullah Naqibullah and other JIA commanders have contributed a great deal to the overall military achievements of the Afghan resistance.
In the education field
JIA has given special attention to edu cation. Although it could not do what it wanted in. this field due to lade of means,' its achievements in the field of education are still remarkable.
JIA was the first Mujahideen party