HFDHOM NEUS VOL .111, MO. 19, 15^9/1997, PACE 9
I eye-witnessed how a silent doctor hears the cries o-f his people, heals their wounds, and consoles them.
And I was assured that the Islamic Jihad really works miracles.
SOLIDARITY WITH THE AFGHANS
The following is excerpted from Prof. Alexandre Benningsen's article, "Winning The War for Afghanistan," published in National Review. May a.1987.
 In the propaganda War for Afghanistan, unlike the shooting war, the Soviets have had things pretty much their own way. Hardly any distinguished visitor returns From Moscow without announcing that one or an other Soviet official confided to himthat Moscow is eager to find a political solution to the war in Afghanistan. Moscow has been saying the snme thing since February 1980, when Annand Hammer announced that Brezhnev was eager to withdraw; but that doesn't stop each would-be deplomat. from delivering the message as a brand-new development. The plea for peace is usually accompanied by a litany of reasons for wester^ despair: soviet losses in Afghanistan are moderate; the economic costs of the war are manageable; the Soviet public can’t put pressure on the Kremlin to wlt-draw. in short, we are told, sooner or later the Soviets must win the war, so the Afghans and their Western supporters might as well give in. But the doomsayers are overlooking one important fact: By remaining in Afghanistan indefinitely, Moscow risks inflaming rebellion among Its own Muslim population.
 The growing unrest in the Musi Inii republics may turn out to be what finally prompts Moscow to end the Afghan wav.
                                                     t
 The Soviet Muslim republics have never beeh completely integrated into the Russian empire. Withiu these republics, all key positions in the Red Army, the KGB and the Border Guards (which are part of the KGB), the Department of Economic Planing. and the Ministries of Irrigation and Finance are controlled by Russians. The same holds true for the Communist Parry hierarchy: At ail levels (republic, region, district, city) the Second Secretary, who is the actual Party boss, is always a Russian or other Slav.
 For sixty years, Moscow has been trying unsuccessfully, to eradicate Islam. In 1917, in Czarist Russia’s Muslim areas, there were thirty thousnd mosques, each with its attached ko-ranic school. Today fewer than 450 mosques remain. The Soviets forced the Musi im republ ics to substitute the Cyrillic alphabet for the Arabic alphabet that is used throughout the Muslim world, effectively cutting Soviet Muslims off from the entire rich heritage of Islam.
 But dispite Moscow’s best efforts, Sov.iet Musi ims retar n both their religious and their cultural Identity Muslim children are subjected to relentless anti-religious propaganda from the age of four. But today,- it is among the younger Muslim genera -tion--educated under Stalin. Khrushchev, and Brezhnev--that