Vol 7, No 9
May 1,1991
Gulf war shapes US aid policy o Mujahideen
Peter Tomsen, US special envoy to the Afghan resistance, has said that US aid will not be given aid to those Mujahideen parties which did not sup-X)rt American policy in the Persian Gulf.
Talking to 'Mujahid Wolas’, a paper published by an Afghan in Norway, he said Saudi Arabia and Kuwait have taken similar stands on the issue.
He said the US government helped all Mujahideen groups but when their help was needed some of them betrayed Washington.
He said, however, the majority of Afghans supported freedom for Kuwait, and only "Dchwani parties" opposed the US policy.
Tomsen said his government has informed Pakistan about its stand and believed that Saudi Arabia and Kuwait might have done the same.
From the seven parties based in Peshawar, four of them sent a total of 300 Mujahideen to Saudi Arabia and three did not. Jami'at Islami, Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar group) and Ittihad were the parties which did not send their Mujahideen. But each party had its own policy on the issue. Jami'at opposed invasion of Kuwait and welcomed its liberation, but did not send any Mujahideen because of political reasons.
Four leaders of the Mujahideen who had send their fighters to Saudi Arabia visited that country where they held talks with King Fahd.
On his arrival back in Pakistan Prof. Mujaddidi said the Saudi monarch had assured him of his continued support for the Mujahideen.
Reacting to the statement of Tomsen about stoppage of aid to the three Mujahideen parties, Mujaddidi said his party and AIG were not receiving any assistance since several months either.
The US decision of cutting aid to three Mujahideen parties will weaken the Mujahideen military strength.
SCUD kills 400 in Kunar
SCUD missiles fired by the Kabul regime killed.and wounded about 1000 people in Asadabad, the provincial capital of Kunar, on April 20.
The missile (or missiles) hit the center of the town at about 6:00 p.m local time, destroying many shops, hotels, houses and vehicles. The explosion also caused fires which burned for 12 hours.
Latest reports speak of about 400 people killed and more than 600 wounded. A large number of wounded people were brought to different hospitals in Peshawar for treatment
The casualties included local people and travellers to Chitral and Peshawar who wanted to spend the night in the town. Because of the closure of the Chitral passes, passengers (Afghans and Pakistanis) used to travel between Peshawar and Chitral through Kunar.	\
- Asadabad was liberated in the fall of 1988. This is the first time that it has been a target of regime attack since its liberation. The town is located about 80 kilometer from Jalalabad where the regime has presence.
Unprovoked attack on Asadabad has caused strong reaction by the Mujahideen parties who talk of taking V__________;___________________'
1 A child injured by SCUD in Kunar
revenge. Pakistan's representative to the UN, condemning the attack, said as a result of the incident prospects for a peaceful solution were damaged. The US government has deplored the attack on a civilian target
This is the first time that SCUDs have caused such large-scale casualties and destruction. SCUD missil.es were handed over to the Kabul regime by Gorbachev after the Soviets withdrew their troops from Afghanistan. • Soviet technicians still help the Kabul regime to fire SCUD missiles.
y
Polish university holds seminar to discuss Afghan situation
A three-day seminar chi Afghanistan ended on April 6 in Kracow, Poland.
The seminar, which discussed the cultural, political, economic and humanitarian aspects of Afghanistan, was organized by the Institute of Oriental
Prof. Rabbani meets Sovieit Ambassador
Prof. Rabbani met with the Soviet ambassador to Pakistan in Islamabad at die beginning of April, and discussed with him the issue of prisoners of war. .
The meeting took place at the request of the Soviet side.
Philology of Kracow University and was financed by Kracow Municipality.
Experts from Poland, Afghanistan Germany, Switzerland, the USA and the USSR took part in the seminar.
This was the first seminar about Afghanistan.held in an East European country. It reflected the interest of the Polish people in Afghanistan.
The people of Poland, who have suffered from the excesses of the Soviet Union, sympathize with the Mujahideen who fought for a decade against the Red Army.
The editor of AFGHANews was invited to the seminar but financial constraints did not allow him to go.