Maps sent to wrong destination
The Soviet Union has recently announced that it has given the maps of its minefields in Afghanistan to the Kabul regime. Kabul says it will clear mines to enable the refugees to return safely to their homes.
But this "deal" between the Kabul regime and Moscow over the minefield maps will not result in mine-clearing. Moscow merely wants to disengage itself from the Afghan problem. Kabul wants to pose as a government concerned about the safety of Afghan people.
Most of the minefileds are located in liberated areas controlled by the Mujahideen. Armies do not mine the territory they control. The Soviets and the regime army mined villages, roads and fields to block transportation* routes of the Mujahideen and restrict their movements.
It is estimated that Soviets planted between 10 and 30 million mines in Afghanistan. There has been no significant territorial gain for the Kabul regime since the Soviets left in 1989. On the contrary, many areas controlled by the Soviets and the regime have fallen to the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen have been asking Soviets to hand over maps of the minefields in Afghanistan so that they can make the villages and towns safe for the fetum of refugees.
The Soviets decision to give the maps to the Kabul regime is another ploy by Moscow to prop up the Kabul regime at the expense of the lives of innocent Afghans. Moscow still seems concerned about the image of the regime rather than clearing the mines it has planted. The Soviets could have given the maps to the Mujahideen directly or through the UN, to prevent further loss of life.
The Mujahideen leaders should ask for maps of the minefields during talks with the Soviet delegation to be held in Islamabad. They should make it clear that ] humanitarian issues cannot be considered separately. Clearing the mines is at least as important as freeing Soviet POWs. The Soviets should provide not only maps of the minefields, but also pay compensation for the thousands of victims of mine explosions.
Soviet invasion of Afghanistan
Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan on December 27,1979, to impose a government of its choice on the people of Afghanistan. Soviet troops killed Amin, the then communist ruler of Kabul, and made Babrak Karmal, brought to Afghanistan from exile by the invading troops, the president of the occupied Afghanistan.
Afghans who had raised against the communists regime continued to resist the Soviet invasion despite tremendous difficulties due to lack of weapons and other resources. Babrak was replaced by Najib, the head of the regime secret police who was also brought to Kabul by the Red Army.
Unable to crush the popular resistance of Afghan Mujahideen, Gorbachev decided to withdraw Soviet troops from Afghanistan in 1989 but continued to support the illegal regime of Najibullah.
Afghans has given great sacrifices to defend their religion and country. More than one million Afghans were martyred in the historical Jehad and 80 percent of all the villages and towns were destroyed.
The purpose of the struggle was to get rid of the foreign domination and to choose a system of government acceptable to the majority of Afghans.
Despite repeated calls by the world community for the right of Afghans to determine their future, Afghan have been denied from exercising this right The main obstacle is Moscow's unlimited support for the Kabul regime.
While we condemn the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, hope that Afghans will be able to form the government of their choice after the Soviet Union officially buried in the near future. Afghan Jehad contributed to the destruction of the Soviet empire.
—a
December i5, 1991, page 0
THE HIDDEN WAR:
A Russian Journalist's Account of the Soviet War in Afghanistan.
By: Artyom Borovik Atlantic Monthly Press, New York
"THE HIDDEN WAR,” written by Soviet journalist Artyom Borovik, is ah interesting book to read. In the introduction, he explores why the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan, and who was responsible. He reveals some things that we did not know before --including an attempt by a Soviet cook to poison Amin before the invasion and Babrak's disclaimer of inviting the Soviet troops.
The first part of the book is full of "official lies". It casts a negative light on the Mujahideen and their cause. It quotes KH AD officials to describe the Mujahideen. He uses Afghan examples to belittle the Mujahideen commanders whom the Red Army had failed to defeat He claims that Commander Ghayour of Baghlan escaped from a siege laid by the Red Army wearing women's dress I The writer admits that this part of the book was written when there was not enough freedom in the Soviet Union and everything he wrote was censored by the army.
* The Second part of the book is more interesting. If it were not for this part, the book would have not been worth publishing.
He reveals the problems that Soviet soldiers faced on the battlefield and at home. The main problem of the Soviet servicemen was their lack of motivation to fight. The official explanation that "they were helping a friendly country against aggression from outside” was not convincing.
Panjsher is given the attention it deserves with regard to the war against the Soviets. Rukha, a town in Panjsher, is described as "the most, god; forsaken and dangerous place in all Afghanistan. Hying to Rukha and back was regarded by some field officers as an act of heroism." The books says the Red Army lost 596 men during the seventh Panjsher offensive in 1984.
The book reveals the real reason behind the tragedy in Salang two weeks before the Soviets completed
jjT... To page (8)