AFGHANews Vol 7, No 17, September 1,1991, page
Editorial
Will Gorby revise his Afghan policy?
The failure of coup against Gorbachev is an important event which will have tremendous effect on the foreign and domestic policies of USSR. The incident displayed the political awareness of people in that country. The return of Gorbachev will lead to the weakening of the Soviet Communist Party, the Red Army and KGB. This is not only a good news for the Soviet people but for those who have been suffering from the aggressive policies of Kremlin.
The episode in Moscow will definitely affect the USSR's Afghan policy because the three institutions involved in the coup had played an active role in 1979's invasion of Afghanistan and are still advocating preservation of the communist regime in power.
The victory of . radicals would have resulted in suppression of limited freedom the Soviet people have gained and would have helped dictators like Najib whose survival is tied to the massive military and economic aid they receive from Moscow.
The people of Afghanistan have reservations about Gorbachev's intention to revise Soviet Afghan policy. He has been talking about bleeding wound of Afghanistan since 1986, but his denunciations of the invasion did result in ending Soviet interference in support of the illegal regime of Najibullah.
Gorbachev even have gone one step farther from its predecessors in introduc don of weapons of mass destruction in Afghanistan. This 'man of peace' gave SCUD missiles to the Kabul regime in 1989, increased Soviet military and economic assistance to Najib, and re-introduced Soviet advisors to support the Kabul regime in its war against the Mujahideen. This way, he prevented Afghans from exercising their right of self-determination. He tried to achieve the objective of the 1979's invasion - imposition of a communist regime on the people of Afghanistan.
Gorbachev did all this without being blamed far continuation of bloodshed in Afghanistan. The concession he gave to West in Eastern Europe, Jewish immigration issue and Middle-East conflict earned him the Nobel Peace Prize and admiration of western leaders.
Some people believed that pressure by radical elements in Soviet Union prevented Gorbachev from adopting a reconciliatory policy on the Afghan issue. If that is the only reason for adoption of hard-line policy on Afghanistan, the radical's coup crash must be a good news because it has removed a major obstacle from the way achieving peace.
The victory of the Soviet people on radicals is perceived as an exercise of the right people to choose their leaders. Now that Gorbachev has returned to power by the people's will, not through the communist party, he has to respect the will of Afghan people to choose their own leaders and type of government they wish.
The emergence Boris Yaltsin as a popular and democraticleader can have a positive effect on Soviet Afghan policy. He had opposed sending arms to the Kabul regime and had expressed desire to meet with the Mujahideen leaders to discuss with them the fate of Soviet POWs and other issues.
The Mujahideen should exploit new climate created by the recent events in Moscow. They should exert maximum military pressure on the regime and speed up efforts to evolve a consensus formula for the political solution of the Afghan problem.
The military pressure will expose die weaknesses of the Kabul regime and passes a message to Soviet leaders that investment on a rootless band of communists in a neighboring country is not helping peace in the southern borders of their country.
A consensus formula for a political solution will provide an alternative to the Kabul regime and would leave no pretext for continued middling of Soviets in Afghanistan in support of the communists.
Tin Mosques and Ghantowns
A History of Afghan Cameldrivers in Australia By: Christine Stevens
Oxford University Press 1989. P. 372 Book Review by Laila Saikal Tin Mosques and Ghantowns by Christine Stevens is a comprehensive chronology of the history of early Muslims in Australia. It goes into much more detail than either May Schinasi's 1980 Afghanistan Council paper, or Michael Cigler's 1986 book The Afghans in Australia. The first wave of Muslims migration began in 1860 when three Afghans were enlisted to accompany the camels for the Bourke and Wills expedition. As the British colony was stretching further across inland Australia, camels and their Afghan handlers became instrumental in the development of services and cartage of necessities to isolated settlements in Australia's interior.
Stevens sheds light on the spiritual, physical and social hardships which these pioneering men endured. She provides a rare alternative to the usual Ausralian history bodes where the contribution of Afghans to the development of inland Australia is either underplayed or inaccurately portrayed. Strength is given to this fascinating book by the author's exhaustive research. Stevens has traced existing descendants of the original cameleers and utilized further information from local amateur historians together with newspaper clippings, letters and photography, giving authenticity to the bode.
The cameleers often came to the Austalian colony on a three year contact basis. They formed insular communities called Ghantowns which could be likened to ghettos. These settlements were isolated from the rest of the outback community. The Afghans were seen "barbaric, immoral, pagan and unclean” by most Europeans and aboriginals. Consequently, the early Australian marriages with Afghans began with aboriginal women and half-castes or European women living "marginal lives." The religious practices bound the Afghans into their tightly-knit Ghantown communities. The adherence to prayer and their wearing of long clothes with turbans, their
& To page (7)