AFGHANews Vol5, Nol6&17, September 1,1989, page©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Muslim describes his experience in Jehad
My name is Muslim and I was bom 26 years ago in Jangalak, a village in Bazarak of Panjshir
I studied primary school in Paktia, Herat and Kabul, where my father,
Colonel Naik Mohammad, served in ■ were burned and 80 communist solders
Mohammad Azim had planned an attack against the regime forces in Sareecha (a hill in Bazarak). He asked me to participate in the attack and I accepted the offer. In this successful attack eight tanks
the Afghan army. After completing secondary school in Qala-e-Fatullah Khan in Kabul, I enrolled in the military high school . In 1979 I was expelled from the 11th grade of the military school for political reasons.
1 joined Ansary high school in Kabul and was twice jailed during the same year, once for 25 day and the next time for 24 hours.
1 was suspected of being in contact with the Mujahideen. I had gone to Panjshir once in 1979 and was taught urban warfare tactics by Commander Masood.
In April of 1980, I went to Panjshir. I was trained in military tactics for one month in Parandeh side-valley. Later, I worked in the Cultural Committee of the Mujahideen.
During the second offensive I went to Peshawar along with Masood's family. I and Masood are relatives and come from the same village.
I enrolled in the Military Academy of Jami'at and completed it in seven months. In December of 1981,1 was among a group of the graduates of the Academy who returned to Panjshir.
I became in charge of a ZPU (antiaircraft gun of 14.6 mm caliber) in Parandeh valley. On those days Panjshir was heavily bombed and Parandeh where most of the Mnjhaideen committees were established was the main target of the enemy attacks.
In February 1982, Masood organized special classes for the graduates of Jami'at Military Academy. Masood taught the students different political and military subjects to make them ready for assumption of new responsibilities. They were assigned to teach military tactics -to the Mujahideen of different areas. I was given the job training of a group of Mujahideen from Laghman province in Khench, a village in the upper part of the valley.
During the sixth offensive against Panjshir in 1982,1 was put in charge of a mortar. For three months I attacked the enemy bases in Jangalak, Astana and Rahman Khail (three villages in Panjshir).
In the same year Commander
were captured. I also participated in many other operations in the area.
I participated in the first meeting of the Supervisory Council of the North in Sharshar of Eshkamish district.
In 1983, a cease-fire agreement was signed with the Soviets in Panjshir. Masood wanted to make use of the time to create more bases in the North. 1 was sent to the North to help in teaching and organizing Jami'at groups. I remained there for two years.
On April 15,1984, I was summoned by Commander Masood to Panjshir. The seventh offensive was supposed to start in five days. Most of the Mujahideen evacuated the valley. I and a small group of the Mujahideen stayed behind in Parandeh to do some specific jobs. Our group mined all the possible crossing points of the enemy.
In the early morning of April 21, a squadron of Tu-16 high altitude bombers which flew from Soviet territory bombed the valley heavily. The next day bombing continued. The enemy landed troops in all the neighboring valleys of Panjshir. The purpose was to cut Panjshir from all directions. Two days lata:, the Soviet armored units arrived. In Parandeh valley there were 24 Mujahideen and civilians at the time of the attack.
I and my four friends had hid in the upper part of the valley without suffi-
cient food and no contacts with the outside world.
After twenty days a group of the Mujahideen under the command of Samai returned to Parandeh. They had clashed with the Soviet commandoes in Khost and Andarab and six Mujahideen had died in these clashes.
When the group arrived we started military action against the enemy forces. We mined the road. The mines were planted in road sides and possible parking areas and maneuvering places of the Soviet tanks. The enemy lost many tanks.
When the Soviets discovered our group they launched a major attack against us. After a clash the Mujahideen retreated. The retreat was not organized because the enemy fire power was too strong. Every one tried to save himself. ,
I and five other Mujahideen using the cover of darkness crossed to the east side of the river and retreated to Dara valley. The Soviet commandoes followed our group. We climbed a mountain between Nejrab and Panjshir and the Soviet soldiers followed us. The distance between us and the enemy was close: We were tired and hungry. They wanted to capture us alive, and did not fire on us.
We had reached about 300 meters below the peak and Soviets were about 60 meters behind us when we saw a man who was carrying a wounded child on his back. He was moving toward the peak very slowly and the Soviets
Turn to page (7 )
mwm
llP^r^
.....fcsSiSI
&#;;■: v
Ill
III