Vol 7, No 5
March 1,1991
UNESCO to repair minarets of Herat
The United Nations Educational, Scientific, & Cultural	Organization
(UNESCO) is planning to repair historic monuments in Herat, reports that organization's monthly paper.
UNESCO sent a survey team to Herat in 1989 to assess their condition. Mr. Belo, an Italian expert, led the delegation to the historic western city.
' He found that some of the historic monuments had been destroyed or damaged as a result of the war. The Italian expert added that if attention is not paid, the rest may also be destroyed. He said one of the six minarets of Jam had fallen, and that the rest also face destruction. The mausoleum of Gohar Shad is reported to be partially damaged.
Belo was sent by UNESCO to Herat in 1975 to supervise the repair work of historical monuments in that city. He trained some local people to repair the monuments, and began the repair work with their help. But .die Soviet invasion of 1979 ended the operation.
The historical monuments in Herat are the remains of die Timurid Dynasty, who had made the city then-capital. Queen Gohar Shad, wife of Shah Rukh, had commissioned construction of a Musalla ( place for pray ing) and a Madrasa (place for learn ing). These monuments tell the story of the cultural renaissance in Central Asia and North Afghanistan at the end of the 15th century A.D.
Belo says both the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime give importance to these historical monuments.
He writes that the first step is to clear the area of mines and assess the cost of repairs.
In 1985, Jami'at Island had approached UNESCO to ask its support for the repair of the monuments, but the organization did not respond positively.
Zahir Shah on Kandahar
Najibullah, the head of the Kabul regime, has offered to allow the supporters of Zahir Shah to	open offices in
Kandahar.
Talking to a gathering in Kandahar city, he said that the former king could play a positive role in bringing' peace. He called the former king "his majesty", the official title used for him when he was in power.
Najib claimed that he himself was the one who ejected the Soviets from Afghanistan, not the Mujahideen.
He said he and his party, the former PDPA, have admitted publicly the mistakes they committed after the Saur coup.
The head of the Kabul regime has donated 10 million Afghanis to be spent for the decoration of Khirqa-i-
Mubarak in Kandahar, a shrine where a robe of the prophet of Islam ( peace be upon him) is kept.
Najib complained that while he had built more mosques than any other ruler, he was still called a non-Muslim by the Mujahideen.
He also said his government spent six million Afghanis to celebrate the first day of the Afghan year in Mazar, which has taken a religious form.
In order to impress ordinary popple, Najib decorates his speeches to non-party gatherings with verses from the Holy Quran. Except for some mispronunciations, he recites the verses well. The reason for the mispronunciations is that he has learned them recently, after he launched his national reconciliation program. At his age it is difficult for him to learn the correct pronunciation of Arabic words.
Salvation founder joins government of Kabul
reveals that Asghar Khan, die head of the Salvation Society, is the uncle, of Najib's wife. Family and tribal relations
Anwar Arghandewal, a founding member of the National Salvation Society, has been appointed deputy prime minister of the Kabul regime.
The Salvation Society, headed by Dr. Asghar, is based in Kabul and promotes the return of Zahir Shah.
The organization had claimed that it rejected the invitation of the regime to take part in the government Now the society says Arghandewal did not consulted the organization about his decision to join the regime. Arghandewal had held prominent positions in government during the time of die king.
The defection dealt a blow to the claims of the Salvation Society that it was independent. An article published by Sorraya Baha, wife of Najib’s brother, who defected to the Mujahideen and now lives with her husband in America,
have always played an important role in Afghan politics.
The Kabul regime has benefited a lot from the activities of Asghar Khan's organization. Reports about the human rights situation in Afghanistan, compiled by the UN and other concerned organizations, always refer to the activities of Asghar Khan's group as a sign of improvement in the situation in Kabul.
/--------------------------------
Afghan students begin their new school year on