AFGHANews Vol7, No 4, February 15,1991, page Q
		\
Editorial 					
Let the 'bleeding wound' heal!
February 15th marks the second anniversary of the Soviet troop withdrawal from Afghanistan. But the withdrawal failed to end Moscow's interference in Afghanistan.
Gorbachev's decision to withdraw troops was forced on him by economic problems. He was worried about the ailing Soviet economy and wanted to use foreign investment and modem technology to improve the situation. The Soviets' engagement in Afghanistan was a great obstacle to this, and foreign countries were not ready to invest in a country characterized by war-mongering policies and expansionist designs.
There was also an internal factor which influenced Gorbachev's decision: the rising casualties of the Red Army and the bad image it was getting at home because of involvement in an unjust war.
As the events of the past two years have shown, Gorbachev never abandoned the objectives of his predecessors in Afghanistan; he only changed his ways of achieving them. The language that Soviet leaders use to denounce the invasion of 1979 clearly shows that they are unhappy about the war because it caused Soviets to suffer and failed to achieve its objectives quickly. They never talk of the suffering of Afghans.
During and after the Soviet troop withdrawal, Gorbachev did every thing possible to prolong the life of the puppet regime in Kabul. Weapons costing billion of dollars were left behind by his troops and more weapons continued to flow to Kabul by air and land. It is estimated that Soviet military aid to the Kabul regime exceeds 300 million dollars per month.
Gorbachev gave the Kabul regime weapons of mass destruction never used before in the war in Afghanistan. Afghanistan is the first country where SCUD missiles were used in a war against guerillas. More than 500 Soviet advisors help the Kabul regime in its war efforts. Soviets-launch occasional aerial and artillery attacks against the Mujahideen in the areas close to border. Soviet pilots fly regime planes from Mazar on combat missions. The Soviets have increased their assistance to the Kabul regime in the field of propaganda . Programs of Radio Kabul are transmitted from the Soviet Union, and the regime uses Soviet satellites for its TV transmissions.
Withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan and Gorbachev's tolerance towards changes in Eastern Europe gave him the image of a peace-maker. He became so popular in the West that they gave him the 1990 Nobel Peace Prize. Goibachev's reputation prevented criticism of his war-mongering policies in Afghanistan. Worse than that, the Mujahideen who had fought a liberation war against the Soviets and continued to fight for their right of self-determination were thought to be irreconcileable.
The question is: Will Gorbachev's plan to keep the Kabul regime in power succeed?
It has so far, but there is every indication that in the long term this strategy is doomed to failure. The people know very well who Najib is and what type of party the PDPA has been!
Najib's national reconciliation program has failed to win the support of Afghan people. He has kept himself in power with the help of security belts around the cities , SCUD missiles, MIG-27s and more important, fuel and flour brought to Kabul by the Soviets. He is fighting an extremely costly war at the expense of the Soviet people, who themselves are facing tremendous economic problems.
Gorbachev must realize that Afghans' patience and determination will frustrate his plans, the same way that they frustrated the designs of his three predecessors. It is in the best interests of the Soviets to let Afghans decide their own future. A government chosen by the Afghan people will be reasonable enough to establish good relations with its neighbors based on equality and mutual respect
Aid for Kabul serves Gorby's home politics
A prominent French scholar says Gorbachev's support for the Kabul regime is designed to serve his domestic policies. Radio Iran reported.
Olivier Roy, who has studied Afghanistan for many years, says Najib is a close friend of the communist party chief of Uzbekistan. Gorbachev sup-prats Najib to please the Uzbek chief, whose support is vital for Gorbachev who is facing tremendous economic and political problems.
Uzbekistan is a Central Asian Republic of the USSR, sharing a common border with Afghanistan.
Kabul ranks seventh in world arms race
The Kabul regime ranks seventh in the world for importing weapons, Voice of Germany has reported. Najibullah has received 4.6 billion dollars' worth of military equipment like tanks, planes, long-range rockets and other weapons from Gorbachev (the winner of 1990's Nobel Peace Prize) in the past four years.
Kabul. population increased 300%
The population of Kabul has increased from 800,000, before the war, to 3,000,000 without any increase in housing and health facilities, German Television reported from Kabul.
The increase is due to population movement from the war zones to the city.
A considerable number of residents of Kabul have been forced to leave their homes and seek refuge in other countries.
The war has caused economic crises in Afghanistan, pushing the prices of essential commodities extremely high Since last year, for example, the price of bread, Afghans' staple food, has increased fivefold and the price of fuel oil, tenfold.
Troops to S. Arabia
From page (1)
Mujahideen is in no way approval of the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait or sympathy with the policies of Saddam Hussain, but part of a dilemma the whole Muslim world is facing. They want to see the liberation of Kuwait but are opposed to waging war against Iraq Iraq insists that Kuwait is part of Iraq.