--------------- AFGHANews Vol 5, Nol6 &17, September 1,1989, page
From the Diary of Jehad	Part (1)
In the land of venison, trout and mines
By: Mohammad EsTiaq
It was about one year since I had visited Afghanistan. Soviet troop withdrawal and stalemate situation in the battlefield had created many questions which needed to be answered. The Farkhar massacre of Jami'at commanders was also depressing news for me and all those who wanted to see Afghanistan free.
It was time to leave behind the confused political scene in Peshawar and renew contacts with the fighters and try to answer some of the questions about the present and future of the struggle of our people for freedom.
I and a friend of mine started our journey from Shah Salim, the last village on the Chitral side of the border in the morning of August 11. We had to cross the famous Toop Khana Pass (known as Doora Pass in travel books). We drove in a pick up half of the pass on a newly-built road. This road is being built by the Mujahideen to be used as a supply route to the North. We climbed the rest of the pass on horse back, this is the easiest pass from Northern Afghanistan to Pakistan which has been used by merchant for centuries. The road came under the control of the Mujahideen in 1979 when the government posts in Keran, Toop Khana and Zibak fell to the Mujahideen. It was blocked in 1980 when the Soviets established a post in Toop Khana and later in Zibak and Keran.
The road became open to the Mujahideen last spring after the Soviet troops left the Toop Khana,post Keran garrison was captured by the Mujahideen at the end of 1987.
Through Toop Khana one can reach Panjshir in four days. It took 14 days through the old road which passed the nigged terrain of Nooristan to cover the same distance. Toop Khana pass opens earlier and closes later than the Nooristan passes. -
At the foot of the pass, inside Afghanistan, there are two beautiful natural lakes. Trout can be found hoe. The mountains in the area have plenty of deer. Teahouse owners along the road hum these animals to feed their customers. Since these people hunt to make money and use automatic rifles they kill too many of diem. If restrictions are not imposed on them by
Jami'at no deer will survive.
After having lunch in one of the tea houses halfway between the two lakes and walking for two hours we reached Toop Khana at the junction of two rivers. This was the place where the Soviets had established a post to block the road for ten years. The area was hill of anti-personnel mines of different types; People were crossing the area with care and they confined their movement to a narrow lane cleared of mines.
This was the third time that I had visited Toop Khana. In 1979,1 went to Badakhshan to take photographs for Jami'at publications. At that time the Mujahideen had liberated Zibak, Juim and Baharak and they were fighting to capture Faizabad. After crossing Sangleech and Eskatool villages we reached Zibak sub-district I also visited the Mujahideen positions close to Eshkashim, a border town.
Zibak and surrounding villages are inhibited by the Ismailia sect. Ismailias were sympathetic to the communist regime of Taraki. When the Mujahideen liberated the area a lot of them escaped to Eshkashim which was controlled by the regime.
Russian activities in Zibak area had started before their invasion in December 1979. When I was photographing the Mujahideen in Bazgir about 12 kilometers from the Soviet bender one month before the Soviet invasion, Soviet helicopters crossed die border and flew over the Mujahideen positions for reconnasence purposes.
The second time which I crossed Toop Khana was in the spring of 1980. I was, on my way to Panjshir. Two weeks later the Soviets blocked the road.
We spend the night in a teahouse along the road which saved us venison. Near Munjan bridge I saw Abdullah Ezam, an Arab scholar who had gone on a fact-finding mission to Takhar after the tragic incident in Farkhar. He was accompanying Gulbuddin Hikmatyar during his visit to the North of Kabul when die tragedy in Farkhar happened. He went to Takhar to discover the facts. I told his companion, Abdullah Anas who is also his son-in-law about a letter distributed by Hezb allegedly written by some Arabs in which Masood was branded as anon-Islamic figure. Abdullah Anas showed
his disapproval 'Of the letter. After returning to Peshawar, 1 saw a letter published by Abdullah Ezam contradicting the content of the letter distributed by Hezb. When I reached Farkhar, friends told me that the Arab scholar had stayed in the area for some days and talked to the survivors of the massacre. The Arab scholar who know Sayyed Jamal personally was very disappointed by his action and give him the title of Jamal Rushdi to compare his work with those of the writer of the Satatnic Verses.'
Keran was green but without fruit. A local resident told me that due to cold weather and a late snow fall there was no fruit in the valley., When we reached Takhar we found that the long winter had deprived the people of that province from their annual fruit too.
All along the road big caravans of donkeys and horses were heading towards the border to transport goods belonging to the Supervisory Council. There woe little to transport. The limited amount of goods they carried were left over from the last year. This year the Council was given nothing and most of the horses returned home empty. I saw a young man from Farkhar who was crying for not having anything to transport He was worried how he could return home empty-handed after a long journey.
The incident showed a clear contradiction between the realities on the ground and what is fed to the people of Afghanistan by their international supporters through radios and newspapers. American officials are talking about continued support to the Mujahideen. That country also expects the Mujahideen to defeat the Kabul regime within months. In practice no weapons and ammunition has been given to the Supervisory Council during the current crucial year. Other fronts also complain about lack of assistance.
After three days of walking and crossing two passes we reached the upper part of Worsaj. My hose which 1 had borrowed from the Mujahideen of Mazar was a great help during the journey.
At noon on the forth day we reached Piew, a village in upper Worsaj. The road built by the Council has reached Piew. The road is mainly used by Council jeeps and trucks. Two years ago this stretch of 27 Kilometers of road did not exist.