AFGHANews Vol 4. No 10, May 15,1988, Page 7
        NA JIB'S brother believed in Communism when lie was a student. Later he changed his mind. He was working in a branch of the Afghan National Bank in Hum burg, ¥est Germany. He gave an interview in 'which he criticised the puppet regime and tried to seek political asylum there.
        Naiib who was the head of the K&B-tradned KKAD at the time, ordered the kidnapping, of his brother .
        He was kidnapped and brought to East Berlin and sent to Kabul via Moscow. He never gave up the idea of escaping to freedom.
        In the summer of 1987 he managed to contact the j j Mujahideen from Panjshir. He was assured of t j support. On October the 22nd. he, his wife and fro ■ i children hid themselves in an ambulance and were taken to Jabal Sersj, 70 Kilometer North of Kabul.
  I                                                     i
  t                                                     \
        His defection came ax a time 'when Naiib was
  I inviting his opponents for 'National Reconciliation' ! and a 'Coalition Government’.
        In an interview with Tony Davis he described his i brother as a charlatan who could not tolerate people J having a different opinion. ’
i
        He and his family are now living in liberated j | areas.
 \
 i • Sediqfiliah, Najifc's brother, end two of bis cMidren with I Cottscwttder llasood in the Pattjshir valley.
              Sediquilah escapes to freedom
  Chaharbagh
                                            massacre
   IN April 19d5, the Soviet Army began a big reprisal sweep operation against the villages of Quarghai district down Laghman valley, close to nearby highway; about 20km east from Jalalabad.
   The villages of Chaharbagh, Kace Aziskhan Baiabagh. Sazadad; Haisar Khan ] and Prele Jbghi were ! partly destroyed and their inhabitants killed j or mutilated.
   In Chaharbagh the ) Soviets shot dead hunderds of civilians j with machine guns; poured gasoline on some of them end ; burned them alive and j looted the houses.
   Children were bayoneted under their mothers' '/ary eyes. 68 I persons were massacred on April 5 in j Has. They were buried ! by the survivors. The \ whole operation ended I on April IS.       j
   A dozen of villages were destroyed or j burned, about a thousand civilians killed. About as many ; Soviet paratroopers took part in this operation.
   Those villages lying nearby Bar unto, hydro-electric dam,
  10km west from Jalalabad on the Kabul highway, were suspected to have taken • part m the attacks against the dam and the ! police -station.   .!