AFGHANews Vol 8, No 3, February 1,1992, page ©
rflf
!
REVIEW
"THE STORY OF VICTORY" is a two-hour documentary film released by the Cultural Committee of the Supervisory Council. It tells the story of the liberation of Khwaja Ghar and trans-Kookcha districts from control of the Kabul regime and successful defense of Khanabad against a massive offensive by the Kabul regime.
The film is directed by Sidiq Barmak, a talented young artist. He worked for the Afghan Films before defecting to the Mujahideen in 1989. This is the first successful attempt by the Mujahideen to make a film of high-quality without outside assistance. Cameramen show great courage in filming the true combat scenes.
Decision to launch attack on Khwaja Ghar is taken in the Sixth Meeting of the SC, held in Taliqan. The attack is a pre-emptive move by the Mujahideen to counter the Kabul regime's plan of recapturing Khanabad and Taliqan. Both sides are prepared for a decisive show down.
The Mujahideen are shown preparing for war. The regime troops are seen consolidating their positions. The footage about regime activities are smuggled from the archive of the Kabul TV.
The Mujahideen of Jami'at, Harakat and Ittihad (Prof. Sayyaf) take part in the attack. Weapons and strength of each side is evaluated and commanders from both sides are interviewed about the attack.
Mujahideen commanders are interviewed in their mother languages -Persian, Pushtu and Uzbaki- to show unity of parties and nationalities in the war against communists.
The viewer can follow fighting with the help of a professionally-made sand table and maps. It is spring. The area is green. Mujahideen cross fields with flowers of all colors.
As the Mujahideen launch their attack, regime posts fall one after the other. Careful planning, professional execution of the plan and political work before launching the attack breaks the regime defenses. Khwaja Ghar falls. A
large number of weapons fall in the hands of the Mujahideen. Regime officers flee by helicopter to Soviet Union.
Masoodi gives clear orders to his troops to protect the people and the city. The Mujahideen behave in a discipline manner. The Mujahideen beat the prisoners of war humanely. Wounded are give medical aid. The weapons captured are divided among the three parties based on an agreed formula.
The Mujahideen want to chase the retreating enemy forces to Dasht-i-Qala but face the opposition of Engineer Bashir of Hezb Islami.
Khwaja Ghar is being bombed by planes and SCUD missiles. Two SCUD missiles kill 45 Mujahideen and civilians. Kabul launches a two-pronged attack to recapture Khwaja Ghar. The Mujahideen retreat from the city but keep control of strategic points. Regime also attack Khanabad at the same time. After fierce fighting Khwaja Ghar is liberated for the second time.
The notorious militiamen of the Kabul regime treat the people of Khwaja Ghar very badly. An old man weeps as he tells the story of militiamen atrocities.
After the liberation of Khwaja Ghar, Dasht-i-Qala and Rustaq comes under Mujahideen's pressure. They fall to the Mujahideen after severe clashes. Mujahideen make use.of captured tanks
and artillery in the attacks.
Eid is celebrated in the battlefield. A convoy of captured tanks on the way to Taliqan give a new look to the Mujahideen forces.
Two commanders of Jami'at, Sayyed Yitrya and Abdul Hakim, who had played a key role in the first libera tion of Khwaja Ghar are martyred. Their funeral is attended by thousands of people in Taliqan.. Every one is seen weeping.
Taliqan is being bombed by regime planes to avenge its defeat in Khwaja Ghar. Scores of people are killed or wounded.
Victory in Khwaja Ghar is a turning point in the new phase of Jehad, an Arab aid worker said.
Masood, under whose command the victory was won, is seen surrounded by many wireless sets which con nect him to his commandos in the field. Single command, participation of all Mujahideen forces and a workable military and political strategy made the victory possible.
Although the outside world seems more interested in the peaceful solution of the Afghan issue , watching THE STORY OF VICTORY" is useful to get first hand information about changes the Mujahideen forces have undergone. Military pressure will shape the outcome of a peaceful settlement in Afghanistan. "THE STORY OF VICTORY" is in Persian. A shorter version of the film in English will be ready for distribution soon.
The video cassettes (VHS system' of "THE STORY OF VICTORY" can be purchased from the MIDIA Office of the AIG for Rs. 300 ($ 12) each plus postage costs
To receive your copy please contact:
Mohammad Najib P.O.Box 997 Peshawar - Pakistan Tel: (0521)40768