AFGHANews Viol-6, No 11, June 1,1990, page ©
Masood sees positive role for Commanders* council
The Supervisory Council paper, Shoora, in its April 4th issue has published an exclusive interview with Commanders Masood about the formation of Council of Commanders iti Afghanistan. Following is the text of the interview:
Shoora: As you know, the armed struggle against the communist regime is stalemated due to various internal and external factors. What should the Mujahideen do to break the stalemate during the current year?
Masood:	I	believe	the
Mujahideen, with the help of God and support of the people, have the ability to defeat the Kabul‘regime, which is much weaker than the Soviet Army. The temporary stalemate is because of a change in the military situation. In the past the enemy (the Soviets) were fighting an offensive war while the Mujahideen' fought a defensive war. Now the regime fights an defensive war, while the Mujahideen must switch to offensive attacks.
This phase of war requires that the Mujahideen, who were fighting guerilla war in the past, change their way of fighting to suit the new situation. The commanders of the major fronts should form a war council and a united command and evolve a workable fighting strategy so that the Kabul regime may be defeated.
Shoora: What should one expect from the Council of Commanders and what is the Supervisory Council ready to do to make it happen ?
Masood:	If	the Council of
Commanders is formed, I believe the commanders taking part in it will reach
an agreement on the creation of a high command, and will evolve a workable military strategy paving the way for positive changes in favor of the Mujahideen. This will give new life to the armed' struggle against the communists.
The Supervisory Council of Jami'at is ready to render any sacrifice this goal requires, and will put all its resources at the disposal of the new high command.
Shoora: Which commanders will support the idea of forming the Council of Commanders ?
Masood: Formation of the Council of Commanders and a united command is not only the requirement of the time, but the desire of ordinary Afghan people, as well as Jehad commanders. For some time, the Supervisory Council has been receiving proposals by commanders from major Jehad fronts for the formation of such a council. But it is not necessary at this stage to give more detail about it
Shoora: What do you predict the reaction of the Mujahideen political leaders will be towards the formation of the Council of Commanders ?
Masood:	I	think	all	.the
Mujahideen leaders and parties want to find a way out of the present stalemate. This proposal is the best way to break the stalemate and defeat of the Kabul regime. Therefore, those leaders who feel their responsibilities towards their religion and people will warmly welcome this proposal. I hope our leaders will extend their full support to the achievement of this goal.
Regime attacks threaten UN plan to send Afghan refugees home
The UN plan to send refugees to Afghanistan is facing problems because of regime military actions against the liberated areas.
Recently the Kabul regime has carried out air raids in Kunar, Logar and Paktia.
The UN wanted to start a program of voluntary return of the refugees this summer. The idea was to settle refugees in liberated areas which were described by the UN officials as ‘zones of peace and tranquility'.
UN officials have said that the
Kabul regime has been informed of their worries about the effect of these bombardments on the return of the refugees.
There are about three million Afghan refugees in Pakistan and two million in Iran.
The UN has started to mark the refugees' passbooks with counterfoil stickers. It is said that the labeled passes will purchased by the UN authorities when refugees decide to return voluntarily to their country.
The i&wly formed Hezbullaft po-li tical party is headed by a Shla religious scholar, Shaikh Yonsuft, from Ghazni province, Najib give permission for the formation of HezbdUah (party.of God) after he lifted die: emergency situation *
^ im
Prof. Mohammad Asghar* the chairman of Salvation Society of Afghanistan (SSA), has refused to take part in the cabinet of the newly, appointed "non-party” prime minister cf the Kabul regime. -
According to Reuter, SSA is struggling for the return of foe <»
Two diplomats, one belonging to the UN and the other to Yugoslavia, have been injured by a rocte^alleg odty food by the hfojahideen,, _
The West German Embassy in Rabat wasalso hit
Prof Mujaddidi, thePreditot of AJGk has left Peshawar for an unofficial visit to Egypt and Saudt Arabia.
Bis visit to Egypt coincided with foe visit of Prune Minister Bhutto hot it is not dear whether Or not it Was a coincidence.
During her tour of eight Islamic countries in Middle Easlsand North AMca, foe iiMmo Minister' of Pakistan held discussions with leaders of these countries on the Kashmir; situation 4 and foe , problem of Afghanistan.
Unknown gunmen stole two from Austrian relief committee after; disarming the guards, The incident took place in the early morning of May 19 in University Town,: Peshawar ..
The two major changes: Intro duced in the constitution of the Kabu tegpe are-foe induction of foe word Islam and the elimination of the word imperialism* The first change is de signed to appease foe Mujahideen; ami the second to please the; Americans. Until recently foe Kabul regime always used the word import-: affs& before the nggne of the United Stales of America*
i..•..:...................v.......J