AFGKANe^s Voll Ho8, April 15,1988, Psge7
 Spiritual man frees ! communist pilot
 j
       A DEAL between the Mujahideen and the Communist regime resulted in the freedom of a religious scholar in Herat last summer.
       Mawatavi Ghuiam Mohammad a religious scholar and an active member of Jaini at Fslami s party who was serving a 15-year prison term in Herat was released last summer when the Mujahideen agreed to release a Communist pilot whom they had captured.
       The Mujahideen captured the communist pilot, Sakhi Mawlafrom Kunar, when they shot j down his jet. He was a | member of the communist I party and his brother was a | police officer in Balkh I province.
       The pilot's brother | wanted to get him released.
 | He contacted Ismael Khan j the Chief Commander of Jami at in Herat. Ismael Khan promised to set him i free in return for the j release of Mawlavi GhuUtn i Mohammad.
       The council of the i ministers of the regime j approved the deal and on July 8, 1987 the two men ! were exchanged in EnjeeS j district.
       Mawlavi Ghuiam Mohammad who was captured by the regime forces 4 years ago was tortured in the jail to reveal the identity of his friends and the nature of his activities. He said “I was given electric shocks three times and sleep deprivation for some days."
           According to Mawlavi Ghuiam ther e were 817 political prisoners in
 Herat jail most of whom were religious scholars.
    The Prisoners receive a food allowance of Afgs. 900 ($2.5) per month which was very little. The relatives of the prisoners were allowed to meet them every 15 days and they helped the prisoners.
    Since Mawlavi s families had become refugee in Iran he had no body to meet him.
 He received help from Ismael Khan indirectly.
    One day before his freedom, his son. his brother-in-law and nine other other Mujahideen were killed when their truck hit a land mine. The incident did not give the old man a chance to celebrate his freedom.
    Mawlavi Ghuiam Mohammad is married and has eight children, four sons and four daughters who are living as refugees in Iran. Before the war he severved as a teacher in the religious school in the city of Herat for 27 years. He says he Is proud that his students have played Important roles in the Jehad against the Soviets.
                                                                                         Russian bomb killed seven
       SEVEN persons. 2 Pakistanis and 5 Afghans, were killed by a bomb blast in Sadda area of Kurram agency.
   The bomb was planted underneath a chicken crate in a shop and it exploded at 10 o'clock in the morning of March 13.
   It is believed the bomb was planted by agents of the Soviet-backed Kabul regime.
  forbids
 growing
   poppy
   JAM I’AT It land's leader has admired tlie efforts of a Teshkea commander in banning the grovth of poppy the area.
  Prof. Rabbani has sent a letter to Sayed Mahyuddin, a Jemi'at commander in Teshkan of Keshm thanking him for the Trtse decision. In his letter he has promised to help the poor people of the area as much as he can to compensate for the loss of income due to the ban.
  Commander Mahayuddin told this to a visiting member of Jami'e.t's Political Office last summer.
  "Despite the poor economic conations of the people ve have taken this decision because it is harmful to out" society end thu rest of the trorld", he said.
  In some parts of Afghanistan poppy has been grovn and used to make medicine. Some people 'were misusing opium and vere addicted to it. Addiction to opium is considered a sin end the Religious scholars and people concerned about the physical and spiritual life of the society have alvays fought against opium misuse.
  The Production of heroin from opium is a modern phenomenon and takes place outside the borders of Afghanistan.