AFGHANews Vol7, No 19, October 1,1991, page ©
Mr. John Monfries and Mr. Peter Mitchell, two freelance Australian journalists, have returned to Pakistan after a 3-month journey inside Afghanistan. They first stayed Arghandeh, near of Kabul, with Mujahideen of Commander Mullah Ezatullah under the command of Omra Khan, where they saw rocket and ZPU-1 attacks by Jami'at and Ittihad Mujahideen on government posts near Chowki Arghandeh and into government garrisons in Band-i-Qrgha, Bagh-i-Daud and Darulaman on the west edge of Kabul city.
From there, they travelled to Sanglakh, where relations between Jami'at and Harakt-i-Islami (Mohsini) appeared to be good, and to Shakaidara District, north of Kabul. The old main road through to the USSR is now in Mujahideen hand and the area is free, although still subject to rocket attacks from Kabul, causing a steady trickle of dead and wounded.
The ICRC first aid post (F.A.P.) at Mirbacha Koot, opened one year ago, is treating war wounded with mostly Afghan staff and they met with several people who had been transported to the main ICRC hospital in Kabul for treatment of serious wounds, than later released at Mirbacha Kot F.A.P. Unfortunately expatriate and Afghan staff chi their daily drive from Kabul to the F.AP. were robbed and the ICRC was considering suitable action.
They then travelled through areas near Bagram airport to Loqman Khail where they stayed with Engineer Tareq
of Hezb (Hikmatyar group). Relations between Jami'at and Hezb seemed to be quite stable here.
Moving through the Panjshir Valley to Paryan they saw evidence of the destruction the area had experienced over the years, and much building of houses and clinics, with a small number of refugees having returned from Pakistan. The security of the area was obvious from the freedom with which they could walk alone from one village to the next
Returning to Shamali, north of Kabul, a new mother and child health clinic, opened by MSH ( a US-funded relief organization) in Shakardara District, and the steady stream of patients was proof of the need for such health-care in a free area where the inhabitants do not wish to turn to Kabul for help, especially as economic times are looming harder with the damage done to the economy by Najib. Despite this lack of money, they saw no evidence of opium poppy cultivation in any area they visited.
Before returning to Pakistan one of the journalists spent several days near Kota-i-Ashro, where the government had recently installed posts on the floor of the valley leading to Maidan Shar, denying that route to the resistance.
The quick return trip to Pakistan by vehicle through border areas was further evidence of the gains made by the Mujahideen over the years- before, the journey may have taken many days on foot.
Moscow conspires against free, Islamic Afghanistan
An Iranian refugee in eluding some of the members of the Holland told an Afghan that the ruling party.
Kabul regime has signed an agreement with Moscow recently that converts Soviet aid to Kabul into loan.
The Iranian refugee who is an opponent of die Islamic Republic and member of an
This might be an attempt tty Moscow to pressurize the future Afghan governments. They know that the Kabul regime is not acceptable to the majority of Afghans and it will be replaced in the future. This agreement might be used to prevent Afghan gov-
Iranian leftist party had lived in ernments from' asking war reparations Kabul for several years and es- from Moscow, tablished close contacts with the The Soviets have signed several regime officials. The agreement hundred bilateral treaties with Kabul, asks Kabul to start repayment of Mujahideen leaders have said they will the debt in 1996.	not abide by the agreements signed by
Soviets stopped sending fuel and an illegal regime brought to power by food to Kabul last year to pressurize the Army. This issue can be raised Kabul to agree with this proposal. This with Soviet on the coming talks in deal has angered many Afghans, in- Moscow between the two sides.
From page (4)
Though it is very likely that Pashtuns formed the largest single ethnic group in 1978, the writer shows convincingly that Pashto was not the most widely spoken mother tongue among Afghans.
The main rival to the Pashto language is, of course, Persian, known in various forms in Afghanistan. There are substantial differences between the forms of Persian known in Afghanistan, Iran and the Soviet republic of Tajikistan. The author points out that it is inaccurate to speak of one Dari' language for the country as a whole. However, the Kabuli form of Persian is understood by some 80 percent of the non-Persian speaking population, undoubtedly being the country's true lingua franca.
Dr. Pstrusinska argues that deliberate manipulation of ethnic groups has been attempted by fabricated statistics, in a strategy of 'divide and rule'. Preparation of a national atlas after 1980, entrusted to a Polish institute, had significant alterations made by Soviet advisers for political purposes, so the author claims. These took the form of "two new maps introduced with simplified and incorrect data."
Thus the Aymaq tribes, a Persian-speaking group living east of Herat in central Afghanistan, were included instead as Tajiks-expanding the official Tajik population by over 500,000. As important Turkic minorities of the northern region, the languages of the Uzbeks and Turkmen received similar strong state patronage, while the languages of much smaller minorities, (Baluachi, Nuristani and Pashai), were upgraded into national languages'.
Dr. Pstrusinska is particularly scathing about the PDPA regime's initiative to establish the so-called 'Jat' as a national language. She dismisses this as no mace than a diplomatic ploy, adding that it came to nothing after, "fortunately, it was discovered that the Jat language does not actually exist.”
Pashtuns are the majority of refugees in Pakistan and Iran. Will the Pashtuns recover their past hegemony after peace, and will their language be able to keep its pre-1978 status? The answers to both questions lie in the future, but die author makes clear her doubts that the artificial equal status for Pashto and Persian, pushed so vigorously by a Pashtun-dominated state-establishment since die 1930s, can ever be revived in Afghanistan.
Anthony Hyman