AFGHANews . Vol 7, No 1, January 1,1991, page ©
Mujahideen have opened fifty schools in Panjshir
The Chief Administrator of Panjshir, Mahntood Khan, has said that Jami'at has opened more than 50 schools including hree high schools and three warding religious schools in the valley.
In interview, with Mujahid, a weekly published by Jami'at, he said more than 4000 students attend classes in Panjshir.
He said a committee has been formed to propagate Islamic values and fight against the social evils by talking to the people. The members of the committee are the local religious scholars.
He said a meeting of the elders of the valley is called when a decision is made about major issues. Islamic law is applied by local administration in the valley.
Mahmood Khan said the Mujahideen of Panjshir participate in military actions against regime outside the valley. "During the current year our Mujahideen operated in the North, Salang and Shamali areas and will continue to send them in the future", he added.
He said the local unit of Council's army played key role in fighting in Shar-i-Buzurg, Khwaja Ghar, Salang and Totom Dara.
Mahmood Khan was appointed to his new job in 1985. He is a graduate of the Faculty of Law of the Kabul University and became active in the Islamic Movement when he was a student.
Big lie exposes truth about Naj ib1 s ' national assembly1
Twenty orphan children of Afghan refugees living in Peshawar will be provided with monthly cash Assistance of $30 by Afghans and Other Muslim families in Australia. Hie program, Child Sponsorship Scheme* was launched by Jami'at
15. According to die program the money donated for the orphans will be distributed to them by the Jami'at Muslims Sisters Organisation. U is hoped that within three month the
reach SB, '
An Iraqi paper has said first the Kabul regime has received a donation of $306 mtthon from Saddam
M-M* .	4	4	.	44.	rttJk.	t
ttou of Islam in money has been:
Rahim Hatft
. The to Abdur
Habibur Rahman
Radio Kabul reported that the representative of the people of Panjshir in the national assembly of regime, Jan Mohammad, met with the Prime Minister Khaliqyar and presented him a clock as gift of the people of Panjshir.
While this news is not different from other reports of the regime, it was surprising to the people of Panjshir and those who have been following the events in that strategic valley.
Panjshir has been the strongest Mujahideen base close to Kabul. It was a withness to nine offensives launched by the Soviet troops in ten years of occupation. Major parts of the valley remained under occupation for several years. The valley was totally destroyed and its people became refugees. Repeated attempts of the Kabul regime to send people in the occupied part of the valley to use that as a human shield for protection of the Soviet troops failed.
After the Soviet troops left the valley, the Mujahideen re-established themselves and people started to return and resume their normal life. With this history there is no chance for the Kabul regime to hold elections in the valley and the people outside valley refuse to do anything to discredit their long struggle against the Soviets and their
stooges.
The story sheds light on the nature of the regime's so-called National Assembly. Not only Panjshir, more than 80% of the countryside is out of the control of die regime and five million Afghans live in exile.
Whom do the members of the regime represent? They represent their personal interests and they are no more than armed militiamen of the regime. One is defending the regime with the gun, the other gives a legal image to deceive simple people outside Afghanistan.
KHAD agents behind Islamabad bomb blast
The Islamabad police have said that KHAD, the Kabul regime's secret police, was behind the blast in front of the General Post Office in Islamabad on December 10, in which the carrier of the bomb was killed in a premature explosion.. The bomb weighed two pounds and was made in USSR.
Two persons have been arrested. They have admitted having contact with KHAD and receiving money for their sabotage activities.
fatherland Bout, and Mohammad Seddiqae Saifeui, the regime Minster
An olMsT^
Committee of the Supervisory Owncii has said that literacy classes have been opened m the five districts of Taliqan city to heip those, who want leant reading; and writing. Hie classes are taught by volunteers.
The sixth summit of die Islamic Conference (OIC) which was supposed to take place in Dakar ( Senegal) this
January has
the Gaff SsSi The dS-member or-gan&ation hasnotfixedadatefor the session of Iex next summit* which Is usna% held every 3rd year. The lAfghaa resistance is member of the OIC. '	%	-
Australia will provide lour mh* Son debars* worth of wheat to Afghm refugees ist Pakistan through Wotldl^Progt^OSTP),
The " Australian High Commissioner in Islamabad, Mr* OJ, Bice, said diem was a substantial peed for food to help foe three million Alghaii refugees hvlng in iSkfctaa. '	'
___J