  AFGHAN NEVS____YOL. II___NCL2J____1/11/1986 PAGE 11
 Despite ail the difficulties, the resistance not only has surulued but has also undergone some position changes. The resistance is enjoying the support of the absolute majority of the people of Afghanistan. Without such support the resistance could not have survived the massive Soviet tvar machine. Militarily the resistance is stronger than before. It is better equipped and better organized.
 The resistance has developed a civil organization beside Its mllltory organization. It has committees in the liberated areas which takes care of health, education, refugees, loui and order etc.
 In the political field now ail the parties are organized under an umbrella ' organization which is called "the Islamic Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen' The Alliance now has a single spokesman. Better cooperation is seen in the field between Mujahideen.
 To gain an honorable solution to the problem one needs to put political pressure on the Soviets, if they are embarassed about their atrocities against the innocent people of Afghanistan and their peace songs ore challenged with the realities of war. They will start to feel pressed.
 The UN General Assembly votes for the resolutions in which the withdrawal of foriegn troops are demanded is a good enampie of the world’s rejection of the invasion. Whot is needed is for the resolutions to be stronger each year. Polite rejection of the invasion and unnamed condemnation of the aggressor is considered a sign of weakness by the Soviets. It is unjust to the oppressed people if we do not cell the aggressor by name.
 The membership of the puppet regime is another injustice from which we are suffering. The regime in Kabul does not hove a legoi status. The Soviets killed the head of state (he was also a staunch pro-Moscow communist) and brought the present leaders from eHile and called them leaders of Afghenistan.They do not represent anybody In Afghanistan. They ore the interpreters of the Soviet policies in Afghanistan. They and their Soviet master do not have control over more than 20% of the land. Their occupation of the Afghan seat in the United Nation can not be justified. "The Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen” will raise this question soon and we hope oil the peace loving countries will vote for the eKpulsion of the puppet regime and the admission of a representative of the Afghan people.
 We Afghans are not wor-mongering and we are not responsible for the war with the Soviets, if we hod conflicts with the regime it was an internal problem which every country has after a kind . As far os the Soviet Union is concerned we have not done anything which could have provided a pretent for their !nvoslon.The theory of foriegn interference and invitation by the regime are oil fabricated by them and are rejected by the world community.