AFGHANews Vol 5, No 20, October 15, 1989, page @
Jami'at runs 45 jrimary schools in Herat area
The Mujahideen have opened 45 primary schools in Herat, in which 10,000 children study, said jhulam Nasir, the Deputy lead of the Education Committee of Herat province.
Ghulam Nasir, 25, is a graduate of Enjeel High School. He has been helping Ismail Khan since 1981.
Nasir, who recently visited Peshawar, told Afghanews that/nost of the schools were opened in Ghooryan, Zindajan, Obe and Enjeel districts three years ago, with the help of the Education Committee of Alliance.
He added that the Mujahideen have opened a school for girls, in Ghooryan district, in which 50 students study.
"The major problem for us is transportation of books, because of the long distance between Peshawar and Herat," Nasir said.
He said the students did not have enough textbooks, notebooks and pens. Another problem, he added, was lack of professional teachers. He urged educated people to return to the area and teach children.
Nasir said that more schools were needed. "If we are helped, we will be able to open 50 more schools in different parts of Herat,'1 he said.
Kabul regime a burden on struggling Soviet economy
By: Habib Rahman
Diary of Jehad
From page (6)
of bombing. One Mujahid was killed and the camp's kitchen was destroyed.
I spent the night with one of the teachers of the Training Center who is my relative.
Next to the training camp was a workshop for automobiles. Many trucks and armored cars were parked there.
Halfway between Farkhar and Worsaj the Mujahideen had built a good hospital. I saw many people going to the hospital to have their children treated.
In Farkhar 1 got diarrhea which continued to bother me during mytrip. The rest of the Mujahideen were suffering from stomach problems too. The problem became acute when I arrived in Taloqan, a city with all sorts of foods. I had a good appetite for food but had to be careful.
Despite r tremendous economic difficulties, the Soviet Union is spending a huge amount of money to keep the Kabul puppet regime in power.
According to Soviet Analyst (Vol. 18 No. 17), Gorbachev is facing great economic difficulties. Three hundred towns lack proper sewer drainage. 100 million people (out of a population of 285 million) earn less than £1,200 per annum. Life expectancy in the Soviet Union ranks 32nd in the wolrd.
With all these problems, Gorbachev still follows the policy of previous leaders in Moscow by imposing unpopular regimes on the people of other countries and providing arms and ammunition to ruthless communists so they can kill their own people.
After the Soviet troops' withdrawal from Afghanistan the world got the wrong impression: that the Soviet Union's foreign policy had changed.
Developments showed that this was not correct regarding Afghanistan. The Soviets kept their advisors in Afghanistan, indulged in cross-border operations and gave new and sophisticated weapons to the regime to keep it in power.
Daily, 40 Soviet transport planes bring arms and ammunition to Kabul, in addition to large convoys sent by road. They have given the regime several hundred Scud missiles; each costs one million US dollars. It is estimated that Soviet aid to the Kabul regime amounts to 300 million dollars per month.
The Soviet leader decided to take his troops out to .minimize political costs. But by pumping money and weapons into Kabul, he continues to impose the communist regime on the
Islamic Iran
From page(7)
Information.
Mohammad Younus Qanuni, representative of Commander Masood in the seminar, raised- the issue with Dr. Vilayati, the foreign minister of the Islamic Republic. He promised to discuss the problem with the relevant authorities to find a solution to it.
After buying some plastic tanks and rocket launchers for my children I left Tehran for Peshawar.
people of Afghanistan.
The communist system is to blame for the misbehavior of its leaders. Based on defiance of God and control of the majority by a minority — the Party — communism requires suppression at home and oppression abroad to survive. New communist leaders blame the previous leaders, but behave the same when dealing with their own people and the rest of the world.
Fortunately the system has lost its appeal. Signs of its erosion are appearing all over the world.
The tragedy of the boat people and the invasion of Cambodia are black spots on the history of communism in Vietnam and its supporter, the USSR
Suppression of the student move? ment in China, civil war and famine in Ethiopia, changes in Poland and Hungary and the exodus of refugees from East Germany to the West are cracks in the armor of communist ideology.
The Soviet Union, which waged an unsuccessful war of aggression against Afghans for ten years, is facing great economic, ethnic and social problems.
The people of the Soviet Union have grown unhappy with their limited freedom. The Afghan adventure had a positive effect on this development. The Soviet camp could be called the "sick man of the East."
A Soviet analyst, looking at the shiny tonnage of a Soviet rocket in Afghanistan, asked his friends: why do the Soviets make such beautiful rockets, but show such poor craftsmanship at making forks and spoons?
The system is responsible for this unhappy development