AFGHANews Vol7, No 3, February 1,1991, page ®
A journey to Panjshir and Bamyan
Lars Grahnstrom
In 1987, when I first travelled to Panjshir, the route went via Nuristan. I had to cross five high passes and reached Paryan, upper part of Panjshir, after a 13-day walk.
This autumn, I crossed the first pass with a car reaching half way down on the Afghan side. I went to Paryan via Top Khana and Anjuman in less than four days..
In 1987, you could see some civilians living in the upper part of the Panjshir Valley. In the rest of the valley, there were Soviet bases and around them woe Qarargahs, the Mujahideen bases. Most of civilian population had left and lived as internal refugees outside the valley.
In autumn 1988, I was back in Panjshir. The last Soviet and Kabul regime soldiers had just left the valley. Panjshir was free, over the destroyed mosque in Rukha waved a green flag. Everywhere in the valley, the Mujahideen walked with their weapons. Many villages were totally destroyed, the rest were partially destroyed.
When I arrived to Panjshir this October, much had changed. Panjshir was peaceful and quiet. I saw only one Mujahid with his Kalashnikov in the bazaar. In every Qarargah there were 3 or 4 Mujahideen with weapons for security, die rest of the weapons were locked up in the Qarargahs. The reason for this was that Panjshir is free; there is no enemy in the valley and a lot of weapons in the hands of the people can cause accidents. Many of the Mujahideen from Panjshir now serve in the Islamic army of Masood.
I felt very safe in Panjshir. There wore no checkpoints in the valley (except one at the mouth of the valley near Gulbahar) and not a lot of young boys with weapons. People were very friendly and I could walk freely wherever I wanted. I even walked by myself from Bazarak to Rukha at night without any problem.
Still most of the houses were in ruins, but the positive sign for me was to see that there were some new and repaired houses in every village. I saw people working in their houses or on the fields. In Khench there was a big bazaar with many shops along the road. On the roads, traffic was heavy. Jeeps, trucks and buses went to Kabul.
The Russians never managed to get to the upper part of Panjshir, Parian. One reason was that there was no road after Dasht-i-Rewat In 1988,1 heard that the Reconstruction
Committee of Panjshir had planned to build a road to Parian. I had walked that road one year before and laughed at the news of building of road and said it was impossible; maybe in ten years, they could build the road. But, I was wrong! The road to Parian was finished in a year. I travelled on it with a lorry this year. It was not a good road, but it made it possible to get to Dasht-i-Rewat in less than two hours.
The Reconstruction Committee has a plan to construct a road connecting Panjshir to to Andarab valley. The road will link Panjshir to northern Afghanistan. The committee also wants to extend the Panjshir road to Anjuman in Badakhshan and then to Pakistan. It is a big project The problem seems lack of money, bulldozers and rock drills. But after I have seen the work on the road in Panjshir, I do not say it is impossible.
In some villages in Panjshir many refugees have returned, in others only a few families have come. Almost all the returned refugees have crane from Kabul. The situation in Kabul is uncertain. They preferred to return to Panjshir even if they had no houses. Only a few refugee families have returned from Pakistan.
To Bamyan
From Panjshir I continued my trip via Gulbahar, Salang and Ghorband to Bamyan. There, I saw a different political situation. Different parties had established checkpoints along the road. We were stopped by Hezb-i-Islami, Harakat-i-Islami, Jami'at and some other parties. You could feel the tension between die parties. But I think the situation was more quiet this year than last year, when I travelled through same route.
Compared to Panjshir, Bamyan is not much destroyed by the war. The former government buildings on a hill are destroyed, but not much more. The area seemed rather poor and not so developed as Panjshir.
Political situation in the centra of Bamyan was really confusing. I was told that in Bamyan you could find all political parties of Afghanistan, both Sunni and Shia, and also some local parties. Everywhere I saw the signboards of the different parties. All the parties are said to be united in the shura (council) of Bamyan. This shura is responsible only for the bazaar and Bamyan center. My impression is that this shura cannot do much and is losing influence.
Two-third of the population of Bamyan are Hazaras, belonging to Shia school of Islam. The influence of the newly created Hezb-i-Wahdat seemed to grow in Bamyan, especially in the western part of the province Hezb-i-Wahdat is a unity of . several Shia parties. On the way to Ghorband, in Laulanj, I saw some clashes between Hezb-i-Wahdat and Harakat-i-Islami (Mohsini).
On the road to Hajigak Pass, Hezb i-Wahdat seemed well-established. Last year there were a checkpoints from different parties but this year there was only one post belonging to Hezb-i-Wahdat
Although Bamyan has been free for two years and Kabul is far away, there were a lot of armed Mujahideen everywhere. I did not feel safe in Bamyan. At night or even in the even ings you could not go to the bazaar without being stopped by young boys who aimed Kalashnikovs at your chest asking who you were, where you were going and why.
Everyone I met with considered the conflicts between different resis lance parties as the main obstacle on the way of victory on the Communists regime and return of peace. Most people, both Mujahideen and civilians, were tired of war. But almost everyone I talked with said that the war had to continue as long as Najibullah re mained in Kabul. They could never ac cept communists in the government. The general view was that the war would continue more than one year.
Resistance Schools
One of my tasks during this trip was to monitor schools supported by the Swedish Committee of Afghanistan in Panjshir, Bamyan and along the road. I always get pleasure when I visit schools in Afghanistan. There is great enthusiasm for schools and education. I am impressed by the students who study in outdoor classes or in cold classrooms. Three or four of them share a text book. I am also impressed by their teachers who sometimes do not get salaries for months, and by the old men in the bazaar who asks why their village doesn't get a school.
The problems of schools and education are often the same everywhere.
•Lack of good school buildings: Many schools hold their classes in mosques and private houses. Most schools in Panjshir were destroyed during die war. In Bamyan, some were destroyed and others are used as offices