AFGHANews Vol 6, No 20 & 21, November 1,1990, page©
Text of Communique of Council of Commanders
A commission of the Council of Commanders held a meeting on October 9,l990 at the Badakhshan border. Present at the meeting were: Ahmad Shah Masood, Maulawi Jallaluddin Haqani, Said Mohammad Hassan Jagran, Qari Baba, Abdul Haq, Mullah Malang, Khalifa Abdul Wahid, Mohammad Amin Wardak, Belal Nairan, Captain Nazari and other prominent Shia and Sunni commanders. The meeting took place in a friendly and brotherly atmosphere.
The participants in this significant meeting were in complete agreement in their comprehensive analysis and evaluation of the situation in Afghanistan. Complete agreement was reached on the implementation and realization of resolutions adopted by the previously held second meeting of the Council of Commanders.
During the four-day meeting they adopted the following resolutions and .decisions:
1.	To create a unified and single strategy, particularly in military operations, and to conduct coordinated operations throughout the country simultaneously.
2.	TO establish nine administrative zones throughout the country anil make plans for the election of responsible administrators for each zone. These administrators will be elected by the commanders, religious leaders and elders in. each zone.
3.	To establish an administrative system in places under Mujahideen control, to protect supply routes and maintain law and order.
4.	To establish a joint administration center to coordinate activities and programs approved by the Council of Commanders.
5.	To demanded that the Kabul regime transfer power to the Muslim Nation of Afghanistan in order to avoid further bloodshed and destruction after 12 years of oppression and tyrannical rule-
If the Kabul regime persists in denying the aspirations of the Nation, the Council of Commanders will continue armed Jehad, until the regime is driven out and an Islamic government is established.
6.	Regime soldiers and government personnel are once again offered a general amnesty by the Mujahideen. Those who accept will have their lives and property protected.
K.	-	•	-
Afghanistan described as Soviets* Vietnam
A Soviet General who is a member of the Foreign Committee of the Soviet
Wahdat Party sends envoy to New York
The newly-formed Wahdat Party, based in Tehran, has sent a two-member delegation to New York to inform the UN and other interested countries about the position of the party on the Afghanissue.
The trip coincided with the 45th session of the General Assembly, in which a resolution will be parsed on Afghanistan.
This is the first time that the Iran-based Shia parties have sent such a delegation to New York The two members of the delegation, Karim Khalili and Eshaq Akhlaqi, discussed the Afghan issue with the UN Secretary General. They also met with some diplomats and journalists.
The Mujahideen based in'Pakistan used to send a delegation to New York during General Assembly sessions to inform the world of their views, but this year the AIG did not send a delegation. The reason could be the AIG's preoccupation with internal political issues.
Moscow plots blackmail of Afghanistan
The Soviet Union has conditioned its economic assistance to the Kabul regime on determination of the amount of money the regime owes the USSR, Radio Moscow stated in a commentary.
The commentary further said the time for giving economic aid on ideological grounds has come to an end and that future transactions will be based on mutual benefits to the two sides. Observers believe that Moscow's
Abdul Basir Chinzay
Communist Party has said that one of the reasons dial Soviet Union is unwilling to sent its troops to Gulf is that the Red Army failed to win the war against the Mujahideen, VOA reported.
The Soviet people suffer a psychological shock from the Afghan war, in the same way that. Americans suffered from their involvement in Vietnam, the Soviet General said.
Editorial
form Page (4)
The positive developments have disproved speculation by some sources who used to say that due ethnic, linguistic, religious and regional reasons Afghans won't unite. Commandrs showed that the strongest bond that unite them, is Islam. Implementation of the new strategy will definitely help in eliminating barrier separate people from each other and bring them closer. This closesness will help in creation of a credible political system which will replace the Kabul regime once it is defeated.
desire to determine the amount of the regime's debt could be connected with possible political developments in Afghanistan.
Moscow might have envisaged a political solution to the problem. If the transfer of power takes place through a peaceful political process in which the regime participates, the. new government will be considered a continuation of the present regime, thus obliging it to honor all the agreements it has signed with the Soviet Union in the last twelve years.
No one knows the number and nature of bilateral agreements between the Soviet Union and the regime.
Fixing the amount of debt may lay the groundwork for such claims from future governments of Afghanistan. The Mujahideen say they do not have any obligation towards the agreements signed by the regime, which was brought to power by the Red Army. They also reject the legitimacy of the communist regimes of Taraki and Amin who came to power by coup and ruled at gunpoint
!He(p us puBfisd SlTQMMk’Wsl
‘Please send your donations to the following account number:
ynHWD Account 733-37 Itfa&iB ‘Banl^Ltd. ¥ehkgtfBaCa,¥eshaivar ^Pakistan