AFGHANews Vol 5, No 3, February 1,1989, page 4
Editorial
'
Bonn closes Embassy in Kabul
The British Foreign Office has asked all British subjects to leave Afghanistan due to deteriorating security situation in Kabul.
Soviet soldiers return home with fresh blood in hands
BOMBING of civilian targets by the Soviet planes has increased just two weeks before the Soviet troops are supposed to leave Afghanistan. These planes fly from bases inside Afghanistan or air fields inside the Soviet Union.
These air raids cover a large area and are described by field commanders as very extensive. Bombing of areas controlled by the Supervisory Council of the North started after a propaganda campaign about shortages of food in Kabul, and attributing it to Mujahideen activities along the Salang highway.
The regime’s Ministry of Defence gave several ultimatums to Commander Masood in the past few weeks asking him to negotiate with the regime and to refrain from attacking convoys. These warnings were ignored and the Mujahideen continued their normal operations against the enemy.
Since January 18 all the bases of the Council - Farkhar, Worsaj, Khailab, Khost-o-Fering and Panjshir - are being bombed heavily day and night. Primary estimates show that casualties among the people and losses of property are very high.
The regime announced the killing of more than 300 Mujahideen in South Salang on January 23, but what actually happened was a massacre of people and razing of villages to the ground.
The problem of the Mujahideen of the Council is a lack of effective anti-aircraft weapons. The Mujahideen are fighting against enemy planes with ordinary machine guns.
The civilian population are the ones who suffer the most from indiscriminate bombardments. Casualties among children and women are high in air raids. Since the weather is cold and the ground is covered with snow, hiding in the mountains and staying too long in caves for protection from bombs is difficult.
These attacks have taken place about two weeks before the Soviet troops are supposed to leave Afghanistan. The attacks, which are offensives, are against the assurances that the Soviets had given during the signing of the Geneva accords. The Soviets had told other signatories of the Geneva accords that its forces would refrain from launching offensive attacks against the Mujahideen.
How could the act of bombing Farkhar more than 100 kilometers away from the Salang highway be called a defensive measure to protect the Salang highway?
Bombing does not solve the problem. It could not defeat the Afghans in the past ten years and will not benefit the Soviets and the puppet regime now.
The Soviets, who are supposed to leave, committed a big crime by killing innocent people after months of talks about peace and calling the invasion a mistake.
The free world should take note of this escalation of war by the Soviets. The Soviets should be condemned for the continuation of violence in Afghanistan. It is a tragedy to see that the Soviets get international aid for earthquake victims in the Soviet Union, while at the same time they raze Afghan villages to the ground by bombs and kill its people.
Gorbachev talks about peace and new thinking but the Red Army continues to kill Afghans. The Iron Amir of Afghanistan rightly said: "Do not trust the Russians.”	1
The consular staff of the British Embassy will remain for the time being but a program for emergency evacuation of them has been approved.
The West German Embassy in Kabul has been closed due to security reasons.
Earlier the UN evacuated its 20 officials from Kabul in a move called a "precautionary measure".
The Soviets have agreed to withdraw their troops by February 15. Since no progress has been made in finding a political solution of the problem, the war between the Mujahideen and Kabul regime will intensify once the Soviet troops have left
Kabul is being hit by occasional rockets fired by the Mujahideen and die food situation in the city is worsening. Due to the war the Kabul population has increased beyond its capacity. There are indications that re-immigration from Kabul to the countryside is taking place.
When the Soviet troops started to pull out of Afghanistan most of the embassies evacuated the families of their staff.
The Russian Embassy also has reduced its staff from several hundred to 100. Reports say that the Soviet Union is building an air strip near the embassy for emergency evacuation of staff when the time comes. The road from the embassy to Kabul airport passes through the city and could be blocked easily.
The Kabul regime has been worried by the UN and other countries’ moves to evacuate their subjects because it could create fear among the regime people.
Bush supports Mujahideen
US Secretary of State James Baker has said that the Bush administration will continue Reagan's policy on Afghanistan including aid for Mujahideen if Moscow helps the Kabul regime.
Baker said that the US would provide military aid to the Mujahideen if the Soviets provide aid to the regime in Kabul.