AFGHANews Vol5, No21, November 1,1989, page©
From the Diary of Jehad	Part (3)
Taloqan resumes normal business after culprits of Farkahr killing are captured
In Worsaj the drivers returning from Taloqan told us that Sayed Jamal (the Hezb commander responsible for the tragedy of Farkhar) had lost control of the gorge. They reported that Jamal's men took 10,000 Afghanis from each truck passing through the gorge in the morning, but by the afternoon they had gone.
We reached the Taloqan-Keshm road a few hundred yards from the spot I where the massacre had taken place one month before. Jami'at Mujahideen were in control of the area. The road to Taloqan was paved.
Fourteen years before I had passed through the area on my way to Keshm. A group of young activists of the Islamic movement, headed by Dr. Mohammad Umar from Keshm, had gone to the area to start an armed uprising against the Daud regime, which was very close to the communists. Daud's security forces pursued Dr. Umar; he was betrayed by some influential local men, arrested and handed over to Daud regime. He was later executed.
I found the Taloqan valley more green than I had . thought it would be. We paid a short visit to the house of Dr. Husain in Khetayan to offer condolence to his family.
We reached Taloqan at noon. We were taken by Commander Masood’s driver to Bagh-e-Zakhira; a garrison controlled first by Soviets and then by PDPA. It fell to the Mujahideen last year.
Imet with Commander Gada andra large number of Mujahideen. The weather was hot After we had eaten and said our prayers. Commander Masood arrived at the base.
It is always a pleasure to meet an old friend from whom 1 have learned a lot I stayed with him for five days, and I was there when Sayed Jamal was captured.
When Sayed Jamal had killed a number of important Jami'at commanders at Tangi Farkhar, everybody in Jami'at was shocked. The incident put Masood and the Supervisory Council in a difficult position.
If they had not taken action against the perpetrators of the tragedy, the people would have lost faith in them. Both Ulama and ordinary people wanted the culprits to be punished. So the area was
By: Mohammad.Esbaq
besieged by Shoora forces to prevent reaching reinforcement to Jamal.
The operation lasted only a few hours. Fewer than 20 people from both sides were killed. Jamal and seven of his friends went into hiding, while the rest joined Jami'at. Jamal had isolated himself by his misdeeds, and when he faced danger got no help from either his men or the local population. He was forced to surrender.
The operation against Jamal was conducted in an impressive way. The Mujahideen from Council behaved responsibly and avoided taking personal revenge. Masood set a good example by treating Jamal and his men humanely.
Immediately after the Farkhar tragedy, Jami'at members in Taloqan became targets of attacks by three groups. Hezb wanted to exploit the situation and launched an attack to capture the city but failed. SAZA, a communist organization in coalition with PDPA, also attacked Taloqan but failed.
The regime was also planning to recapture Taloqan, but due to the Council's timely steps the attack was not launched.
Ulama and leaders of other Islamic parties told Masood how Sayed Jamal refused to listen to their advice, and how he killed Jami’at commanders. When Arif Khan, a Jami'at conunanderfrom Kunduz who had been captured in Farkhar and then released, arrived in Taloqan, he sent a delegation of Ulama and elders to Sayed Jamal to keep him from killing Jami'at commanders captured by his men. Jamal promised their release, but instead sent back their mutilated bodies. Commanders from the Khalis and Harakat parties told the same story.
The people's reaction to Jamal's arrest was favorable. People thought that Jamal's easy defeat was due his tweaking his promises and killing innocent people.
For five days I was a witness to Masood's various activities. I attended a meeting of the commanders of Taloqan presided over by Masood. They discussed the military situation in the city and die future course of action. Masood was critical of a few cases of undisciplined acts by local Mujahideen. Everybody expressed his opinion freely.
They settled many points in a relatively short meeting.
I went for a walk with Masood on a football field in Taloqan. He asked questions about the situation outside, and I asked him about events inside.
Masood has become a folk hero; every one wants to see him. One afternoon he had an appointment with some journalists in a house close to the main road. The people of the city - several thousand people, young arid old - gathered around. When he left, a large crowd chased his jeep to catch a glimpse of him.
Masood is a busy man. He bolds commanders' meetings, answers all radio messages sent from all over Afghanistan, and meets with people. Despite all the pressure he is always friendly and relaxed.
i
One important development which was new to me was the formation the Council army . The army units acted like professionals and you could read determination and courage in (he faces of the men.
During my stay in Taloqan, I met with some old friends: Commander Pana, Commander Gada, Commander Muza and Commander Saleh. These people are the masters of the battlefield.
1 also met with Haji Agha Gul, who replaced Mullah Wudood, Commander Pir Mohammad, Pahlawan Ebrahim and Sayed Eqbal, Dr. Husain's brother.
Taloqan is the biggest city controlled by the Mujahideen. It is a clean city with parks, shops, beautiful mosques and running water in each street.
Taloqan has escaped major destruction in die war. Shops were full of goods. Ice cream parlors were full of costumers. The foreign journalists displayed an insatiable appetite for Afghan icecream.
Taloqan and its surrounding areas are very fertile. People's living conditions are relatively good. From the face of the people erne could say that they were well-fed. Taloqan is a city in which Uzbaks, Tajiks and Pushtoons live together.
Masood wanted to see the city better organized. The presence of so many
Turn to page ( 5 }