AFGHANews Vol6, No9, May 1, 1990, page©
Kunduz Province
The Kabul regime launched an attacked on Qala-i-Zal district on April 3, to re-establish their control over this border district.
The Military Council of Kunduz under Commander Arif Khan decided to attack the enemy. In the fighting 30 enemy soldiers and eight militiamen were killed and three militiamen were captured.
When the attack started, about 60 armed Mujahideen1 who had established contacts with the government openly joined the regime forces. They included 35 men from Jami'at, headed by Haji Shokoor, 16 men from Mahaz Milli headed by Safar Mohammad and a few others.
As a result of heavy bombardment by the enemy artillery the residents of 20 villages close to the center of Qala-i-Zal took refuge in other liberated areas. The Mujahideen attacks on the enemy posts continue.
•	On April 7, the Mujahideen from Jami’at captured 16 soldiers and seized six Kalashnikov rifles, one RPG rocket launcher, a wireless set and some ammunition when they attacked Pul-i-Khesht posts close to the city of Kunduz.
•	A Jami'at commander was killed in fighting against Kabul regime troops in Aliabad sub-district on April 19. Commander Samiullah, known as Kandahari, was .killed when he led an attack against the enemy posts in Aliabad. Seven enemy troops were killed in the fighting.
t Paktia Province
An ammunition depot of the regime in Khost border town was set on fire when a Mujahideen rocket hit it on April 31. The ammunition dump
burned for 45 minutes and sound of explosions were heard until the next day.
•	Commander Haqqani’s office in peshawar has reported shooting down of a regime jet with a Stinger missile on April 9. According to the sources the pilot of the plane. who landed safely with a parachute was killed by the Mujahideen when he tried to escape to to the government-controlled territory. The Mujahideen and regime soldiers observed a brief cease-fire in Khost front on April 12 enabling them to exchange the dead body of the regime pi-lpt with the body of a Mujahid killed in the attack against the enemy.
Kandahar Province
\ ••
Thirteen armed soldiers of the regime stationed in the security belt around the city of Kandahar joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Mullah Naqibullah on April 14.
As a result of the Mujahideen attack on the regime posts around the city 12 soldiers were killed, three were injured and two were captured.
•	An important Mujahideen commander in Kandahar passed away in Quetta, Pakistan. Commander Mughash from Prof. Mujaddidi's party died of an heart attack. His son has been appointed in his place to lead the Mujahideen in the war.
Kabul Province
On April 9, the Kabul regime launched a massive attack against the Mujahideen in Paphman, 25 kilometers west of the city of Kabul. The attack started at 4.00 in the morning with an heavy barrage of artillery and rockets on the Mujahideen positions. Later about 50 tanks and armored cars took part in the attack. According to Mullah
Ezatullah, Jami’at Islami commander in Paghman, the aim of the regime forces was to capture the two strategic posts in Tapa and Pir Beland. The Mujahideen put up a tough resistance inflicting heavy losses on the enemy. According to the Hindukush News Agency, in the first few days of fighting the Mujahideen killed 20 enemy soldiers and wounded 17. Two tanks were also destroyed. The Mujahideen shot down a regime jet on April 14 . The pilot of the jet was killed.
A spokesman for the Kabul regime claimed the infliction of heavy losses on the Mujahideen but refused to allow foreign journalists to visit the area.
It is believed that regime's attack against Paghman was prompted by a Mujahideen rocket attack on the Kabul airport in which 14 people were killed
Paghman is a stronghold of the Mujahideen. As a result of the continued fighting this resort town has been totally destroyed.
Ghore province
The Mujahideen have shot down a regime helicopter in Sharak district killing all the 12 men on board. The helicopter was hit when it was about to land.
Logar province
Four women and six children died when the regime planes bombed their villages near Pul-i-Alam, the provincial capital of Logar, on April 18.
The air raid was carried out after the Mujahideen attacked a regime con voy and captured 20 regime soldiers. The convoy was on its way from Kabul to Logar.
Herat province
Six militiamen defected to the Mujahideen in Toghoon Koh base of the Mujahideen in Pushtoon Zerghoon district on April 17.
On April 12, regime planes bombed twice the Mujahideen base in Taqcha and Toghoon Koh but caused no casualties.