 AFGHAN NEWS
 No. 1
 1-2-1585
"r

                                                                           ISMAIEL OF HERAT*-
     1984 was a scene of intensified fighting between Soviet-Kama 1 and Mujahideen forces all over Afghanistan, especially in Panjshir, Herat, Kabul, Kandahar and Mazar Sharif etc.
     Although reports of fighting in Herat province are slow in reaching Peshawar the Mujahideen of Herat, under Commander Ismael Khan of Jamiat, have- been able to send their reports regularly.
     Last week Ismaeil Khan himself went to Iran:t.o give the latest
 news on Herat, In an hour long telephone conversation with prof.Bur-
 hanuddin Rabbani, leader of Jamiat Islam! Afghanistan, Ismaeil Khan
 said "that the Russians have been brutally attacking the civilian
                                                                . *
 population of Herat throughout 1984.
     The Russians have deliberately wrecked irrigation systems , burned crops and decimated livestock in an effort to starve out civilians who support Mujahideen. Commander Ismaeil said that the Russians, along with their puppets, using this tactic, have been able to drive some of the civilians out of Afghanistan to Iran or to displace them to the neighbouring provinces.          . •
     He mentioned that the food situation in Herat is very serious worse than last year. He said lack of food, medicine and clothes will jeopardize civilian lives and endanger Mujahideen bases. He has assured prof.Burhanuddin Rabbani about the organization of the Mujahideen and their morale.
     Ismael Khan was highly concerned about the new Soviet increase s®f forces on the Iran-Afghanistan border and said that the purpose of his trip is to warn the concerned authorities of Iran about Soviet activities on their border.
     In an interview with the BBC Commander Ismael Khan said that the Russians are now using more air bombardments, long-range artillary and 40 barreled KM 21s (Stalin organ) in order to discourage Mujahideen operations and drive civilians out.
     He said that two months back the Russians launched, their offensive No.8, which resulted in the death of 150 civilians in the city of Herat He said that Mujahideen have extended their operations in the city and have been able to limit the enemy's control to an area of less tha 15Rm
     He said that the municiplity building has been captured by Mujahideen too and that the government battalion-6l was also captured with about 500 weapons.
     Commander Ismaeil said that the 12000 soldiers of the Herat division, have been reduced to 1400, He said that there are 35 Russian advisors in the mentioned division who will not take the risk of ...