flFGHBH NEUS UM..MI, HO.tl, 1/6/»9e7,PB6E 2
Eid gatherings. People try to find places with some kind of cover and Mujahideen forces are alerted to deal with the situation if the enemy do attack. Last year in the first day of Eid 100 people were killed as a result of aerial bombardments in Takhar and Baghlan provinces in the North of the country.
In exile Afghans celebrate Eid all over the world, especially in the neighboring countries of Pakistan and Iran where the more than 5 million refugees are living. Hospitality of the governments and people of the brother countries of Pakistan and Iran has alleviated some of the pain the refugee community experience, but homesickness and separation from relatives and friends is the fate of a refugee.
JAMI'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
 WISHES A HAPPY     -FIERE
 EO ALL LiUSLLM BROEHERS AND
 SISTERS ALL OVER THE WORLD.
           * * *
 The big tragedy of the people of Afghanistan created by Soviet Russia continues. A nation is deprived of living according to its belief and beside physical suffering experienced severe psychological torment.
 The Afghan nation desires peace to celebrate Eids and other national and religious occasions in a peaceful atmosphere. This is the natural right of Afghans and this can only be achieved if Soviets leave the country and Afghans are left to determine their own destiny.
 We wish our brothers and sisters a happy Eid and assure them of our continued commitment to struggle for liberation of the country and restoration of peace.
                                     PDPA MOURNED KHALILI'S DEATH
 According to Radio Kabul, PDPA Politburo condoled the death of Khalili and called it an irreparable loss. Radio Tajkistan -- A Soviet Central Asian Republic— also ran an hour-long program to commemorate his death.
 This decision of the puppet regime and the Soviets reveals the hypocritical nature of their policies. They do not have any respect for a national poet like Khalili who opposed the communist rule and the Soviet invasion of the country. They have condoled Khalili's death for the following two reasons:
    1- To promote the Soviet dictated National Reconciliation program.
    2- To damage the prestige of a national poet who fought foreign aggression and the tyranny of the communist rule through his pen. Soviets knew that anybody connected to them or the puppets will be hated by the people of Afghanistan so they wanted to create doubts in the minds of the people of Afghanistan about Khalili after his death.
 Fortunately this enemy lactic will not prove effective because the so-called National Reconciliation program of the regime is already dead . The attempts of the enemy to damage the personality of Khalili also doomed to failure because the people of Afghanistan knew him very well. Khalili has left behind a great amount of literature which shows his love for Islam and support for the Mujahideen cause. In all his poetry