lilili «ll
lNTHE«AMEpFALMIC«TYAI.tAl» ; . ^V'- 7	..	-,'4
&SVv. ■ / / .i .g -
r A ]
|| Jami’al
Vol 8, No 12
June 15,1992
Kabul-Torkham highway under reconstruction
The government of the United Slates of America will provide funds for the repair of Torkham-Kabul road, a USAID spokesman reported in Islamabad on May 26:
The repair work will be completed by October of the current year. Construction of two engineering bridges, one concrete bridge with a length of 25 meters, 40 culverts, 300 meters of protective walls and leveling of 40 kilometers of the road will be carried out according to the plan. The construction work will be done by the Afghan Construction , and Logistical Organization, a non-govermcnial Afghan organization based in Peshawar.
Repair of the road will make the return of refugees easy and safe and help the trade to flourish.
Travellers arriving from Pakistan say the work on the road has already begun.
Sudan donates food to Kabul
Sudan has donaLcd 150 tonnes of sugar to the Islamic ^Government of Afghanistan.-
Gutbi-Al-Mehdi, the head of the Sudanese delegation which visited Kabul during May, said that the donation was a sign of Islamic solidarity of the people of Sudan with the Islamic government in Afghanistan.
Sudan was one of the five countries which had recognized the Afghan Interim government based in Peshawar. It also allowed the Mujahideen to open an embassy in Khartoum. Several Mujahideen leaders have paid visits to Sudan and scores of Afghan students study in the universities of that country.
Sudan had established a relief organization in Peshawar to help the Afghan refugees and Mujahideen.
Islamic rule faces a difficult agenda
One and half months have passed since the transfer of power from the communist regime ip the Mujahideen. Although the Islamic government has made some achievements in providing services and security for the people of Kabul, there remain security, economic and political issues that must be solved.
Since Hezb Islami forces were driven from Kabul on April 26, the capital has faced ho serious military threats from outside. Rocket attacks launched by Hezb in the first week of May, however, killed or wounded scores of people and terrorized the innocent.
Efforts by the supporters of Jehad resulted in a cease-fire between Hezb and government troops. Prof. Rabbani met with Hikmaiyar outside Kabul to discuss ways of solving the issue. Later, Masood and Hikmaiyar signed an agreement pledging to solve the problems between the two sides peacefully.
They agreed on the withdrawal of controversial armed forces from Kabul and holding of elections in the shortest possible time. They stressed that the Peshawar agreement on the lime for transitional government should be implemented.This agreement reduced the chances of attack from south of the capital.
At the start of May, most of the Mujahideen leaders returned from exile to Kabul. They were accompanied by hundreds of armed men. Their return helped to stabilise of the situation to some extent The leaders decided to convene the meetings of the Leadership Council, comprising the heads of all Mujahideen parties, so that they could cooperate in bringing stability to the country.
Prof. Mujaddidi had been appointed for a period of two months to complete the job of transfer of power from the former regime to the Mujahideen. He was the first leader to enter Kabul and lake power from the communist
regime.
Immediately after assuming power in Kabul, Mujaddidi began to make statements that the ’people' wanted him to stay longer than two months. He used government TV and radio to reflect the wishes of his supporters from different parts of Afghanistan who demanded his term of office be prolonged. To justify his position, he accused other leaders, especially Prof. Rabbani, of breaking the Peshawar agreement which charted the course of the interim Islamic government.
It seems that the majority of the Mujahideen leaders are in favor of the full implementation of die Peshawar treaty. An attempt by Prof. Mujaddidi to prolong his term of office will push the country into a deep political and military crisis.
Prof. Mujaddidi leads a small party of the Mujahideen. Using his position as the temporary head of the state, he wanted to win the support of some strong military groups in the country. He promoted many generals, including General Abdur Rashid Dostum. During a visit to the Mazar-i-Sharif, he praised Dostum as a hero arid gave him the highest rank in the Afghan army.
These were preparatory steps for a deal with the National Islamic Movement of the North, headed by Dostum, and Hezb-i-WahdaL Prof. Mujaddidi did not consult any of the other leaders when making these deals. His statements about other Mujahideen parties have been provocative.
In May Prof. Mujaddidi paid an official visit to Pakistan where he was given a warm reception. On the way back, his plane was hit by a rocket when it was landing at Kabul airport Mujaddidi accused Hezb Islami of involvement in the 'attack. The Hezb has denied the charge.
To page (8)