AFGHANews Vol 5, No 14, July 15,1989, page ©
Afghans worried about Tehran’s close ties with Moscow
By: Habibur Rahman
The quick improvement in Soviet-Iran relations is a source of concern to Afghans who are still engaged in a war against the Soviet-backed regime in Kabul.
To Afghans who speak the language as Iranians the slogan of "no east, no west" is well known and even some ordinary workers who have lived in Iran for a while use it in arguments with shopkeepers and their fellow workers.
Afghans were listening to the radio broadcast of Friday prayers in Tehran in which the worshippers repeated the slogan of "down with America, down with Russia.” They condemned America for its support to Israel and USSR for persecution of Muslims and invasion of Afghanistan.
Iranian leaders repeatedly warned their Afghan brothers that they should aware of western plots against Islam.
I was among a delegation of Afghan Mujahideen who met with President Khamenei when he visited Pakistan some years ago. After a few sentences in praise of Afghans he spend most of his time warning the Mujahideen of the western plot against Islam and advised them to preserve their revolution from outside interference.
Other Iranian personalities have taken similar position. When Prof. Rabbani paid an official visit to the US in 1986, the Iranian media give him a hard time during his trip to Tehran. According to them, the trip was against the interest of Afghans and jeopardized the independent nature of the Afghan resistance.
The Soviet behavior towards Muslims in general and Afghans in particular is not unknown to Iranian leaders. The Soviet interference in Iranian affairs and the activities of Soviet agents under the name of Todeh party is a recorded fact, which led to banning that party.
How could "the small Satan” turned into a good neighbor without abandoning its behavior? How one can believe that Soviet Union is not trying the expand its influence in third world countries, especially the neighboring countries? Rafsanjanis statement that Iran and Soviet cooperation can cut outsiders interference in the region is in-
comprhensible to Afghans. The Soviet Union, with a record of killing at least one million muslims in Afghanistan, half of whom have been killed during Gorbachev’s rule, cannot become a guarantor of peace and an equal partner to smaller states in the region. The Soviet empire has been created through military expansion and Russification of other nationalities especially muslims in central Asia. The Invasion of Afghanistan was part of the same drive of exporting communism to neighboring countries and spreading of Russian influence.
Iranian leaders have special responsibility towards the problem of Afghanistan. Afghanistan is their neighbor and Afghans have a common culture, history and religion with Iranians.
How could the Iranian relations with the Soviets improve while the Soviets are still involved in killing Afghans and are trying to prevent Afghans from choosing their destiny?
Vorontsov's diplomacy is a true example of the Soviet policy towards Afghanistan. He wants to divide Afghans and create misunderstanding between neighboring countries who support the Mujahideen. He wants to encourage Iran-based Mujahideen parties in Iran to make a deal with the communists in Kabul and warns Iran against "western influence” among the Pakistan-based parties.
We expect that Iranian leaders will take a clear stand in support of the Mujahideen. The language used in the final communique of Iran and Soviet Union after Rafsanjani's trip to Moscow was so general that Iran’s position on Afghanistan was not distinguishable from the position of Soviet Union which is responsible for all the tragedy in Afghanistan. The declaration can be a clever diplomatic piece but does not suit the revolutionary nature of the Islamic Republic. And since this position has been taken after the death of the Imam it could be more alarming.
The size, economic foundation and social and political system of Iran and Soviet Union cannot make them equal partners who do not interfere in
Turn to page ( 7 )
The Afghan issue was a main topic of discussion between Benazir Bhutto and Margaret Thatcher during the official visit of the Prime Minister of Pakistan to London this month.
, The British government has supported the liberation war of Afghans against the Soviet invaders and supports the right of Afghans for self-determination;
After talks between the two leaders, officials of the two countries said their views on the Afghan issue were identical.
It seems the two sides have emphasized the need for a political solution and maintenance of military pressure to achieve that political solution.
The British government has asked for the removal of Najib's government as a step towards finding a political solution to the problem.
A few days before leaving to London, Benazir Bhutto visited the head of the Afghan interim government and other Mujahideen leaders to hear thier views on the situation.
Yaqoub Khan, the foreign minister of Pakistan flew to Tehran where he met with Iranian leaders and the resistance groups based in Tehran. The Afghan issue was the main topic of Yaqoub Khan's discussion with his Iranian counterparts. The visit came after Rafsanjani's trip to Soviet Union, which resulted in improved ties between the two countries and before Benazir's visit to London.
Mujahideen release POWs
The Mujahideen released 37 prisoners of on July 5 in Ghaziabad farm beween Jalalabad and Torkham.
The prisoners were captured three months ago when -Samarkhail garrison about 22 kilometers east of Jalalabad was overrun by the Mujahideen.
A number of foreign journalists were invited to report the event. It is a move by the Mujahideen to counter regime charges that the resistance kills prisoners of war. Among the prisoners released there was a teenager who according to the camp commander, Awal Gul, had killed one Mujahid and injured another.