flFGHRH HEHS VOL.Ill, HO.H, 1/6/1967,PR67 5
                                          PANJSHI8 VALLEY
On 8/5/1987, Mujahideen attacked a group of Soviet soldiers who were swimming in the river in Zamankor, 10 Km inside the main valley, and killed 14 of them.
                                          PARWAN PROVINCE
On 5/5/1987, supporters of the Mujahideen in Gulbahar. at the mouth of the Panjshir valley, planted a time-bomb in a Soviet supply convoy which was carrying ammunition to Panjshir. As a results of the explosion two tanks and 4 trucks were destroyed The children in the area recovered an AK-74 from the mentioned convoy and passed it to the Mujahideen                                                      «
                                          KUNDUZ PROVINCE
According to a report sent by Qari Rahmatullah on 27/3/66 Mujahideen attacked the enemy post in Char Sari in Khanarad district with heavy weapons. The enemy suffered casualties the exact number of which was not immediately known
On the same day Mujahideen attacked the district headquarters in Khanabad with 107 mm rockets The enemy casualties were not immediately known
On 13/2/66, Mujahideen ambushed a group of KHAD agents in Mullah Gholam village. Fighting continued for two hours Twenty three enemy personnel were killed and 4 AK-47s, were captured Mujahideen suffered no casualties
                                    HIGHLIGHTS OF A RECENT SPEECH
                                              By Prof. B. Rabbanj
Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani the leader of Jami'ai Islami Afghanistan, delivered a speech on the political solution of the Afghanistan issue in the Institute for Strategic Studies in Islamabad on May It' The main points of the speech and subsequent interview with The Muslim newspaper are the following
                                                •
   1 Recent ‘ initiatives" by Gorbachev for the political solution of the Afghanistan issue is the continuation of the political maneuvers and propaganda war by Russians from the outset of their invasion to confuse world opinion and to prevent strong condemnation of their aggrersion in international forums. The recent maneuvers have achieved some success especially among the Gulf countries —with the exploitation of Iran-Iraq war But this is only temporary With the passage of time the truth of the matter will be revealed and the propaganda will lose its effectiveness.
   2 Russians and their puppets’ actions in Afghanistan show they are not sincere in their claims for seeking a peaceful solution of the Afghanistan issue Russians have brought in more troops and weapons and have intensified the war and their indiscriminate bombardments inside Afghanistan and in the refugee camps at the same time that they speak loudly about "peace', "ceasefire", and national reconciliation".
   3 Historical evidence shows that Russia was able to bring many of the Eastern European countries into its orbit after World War II by the infiltration of its agents into national reconciliation" and coalition governments One single communist minister for example was able to stage a coup d etat, dissolve the majority parties, and establish pro-Russian communist regime It seems that Russians want to repeat the Eastern European experience in Afghanistan and achieve by political means what they have failed to achieve by military means — that is, to bring that country under their domination