AFGHANews Vol8, No 5, March 1,1992, page ©
Dear Mohammad Es'haq:
Thank you for sending the observations on my paper. I hope you will not mind if 1 copy them and circulate them to the workshop where I am presenting it 1 thought your comments and questions were very helpful. Thank you also for the New Years’ card. 1 know I say this every year, but maybe this year is the one when things will start to return to normal in Afghanistan. I am planning to go to Kabul and perhaps other parts of the country this summer. I may want to visit some areas controlled by the Supervisory Council, in which case I will ask for your assistance.
Some of your comments are helpful in that they show how what I wrote can be misinterpreted. If my paper is published, I will change or clarify certain points.
1 am not sure what you or the other Mujahideen leaders mean by help to Najib. Are you referring only to weapons and fuel for combat ( as in the November Moscow communique)? Or do you include food and fuel for other purposes? It is possible that if all forms of external aid to the Kabul government were stopped, it might fall apart 1 am not at sure that this would be a responsible thing to do, however. There are over two million human beings in Kabul city. They need a government that can provide them with some security and food. So far the Mujahideen, far various reasons, some of which are out of their-control, have not been able to provide an alternative. I am afraid of something happening like what is taking place in Somalia, where there is no government and several well-armed groups are fighting each other right inside the capital city. The main problems in Afghanistan (in my opinion as a non-Afghan and non-Muslim) is to form a unified political group capable of taking control of the government from the current regime, not making the Najib regime collapse. I know that Islamists do not like the political views of medieval jurists, but there was some truth in the statement of al-Turtushi that "60 years of zulm are better than one night of fitna
I knew that Commander Masood had captured the border districts through fighting. I was told by a source in Washington that he mounted these attacks after some communications with the Soviet side which assured him that they would not intervene militarily to defeat him. According to my source, the Soviets appreciated the fact that Masood, unlike some other Mujahideen leaders , was keeping die war on the Afghan side of the border. They thought that he might be more effective in control-
ling the border than either the militias or other Mujahideen. As you have reported, there is virtually no presence of die regular Afghan Army in the area. But I did not mean to imply that the Soviets gave Masood any active support, much less that they handed the posts over to him.
On the composition of the SC: when I wrote that it had become a "de facto base for Tajik power," I did not mean to imply that it was an ethnically exclusive organization. As far as I know, the ethnic composition of SC reflects the ethnic composition of the population of the area. 1 understand that the police chief of Taliqan is a Pashtoon who belongs to Hizb-i- Island (Khalis). The late Qazi Islamuddin and other commanders in SC are Czbak. However, the majority of the membership of SC, like the majority of the people of the area, are Persian speaking Sunnis, who have come to be known as Tajiks. (I have the impression that this word is not very commonly used in die area). Under the previous Pashtoon-dominated Afghan governments, the people of this area did not have very powerful political organizations. They had village shu-ras, and sometimes the Sufi tariqas would help some leaders (like Habibullah II) organize the people. As a result of the organization of the SC, the mainly Tajik people of die area are now a force that any government in Kabul must recognize. I am sure that they will demand adequate representation in the future government, some degree of local self-government (which they now have — see below about federalism), and a fair division of national resources. AH of these things can be justified by reference to Islamic principles, which is the language die SC uses. The SC never openly speaks in ethnic terms, to my knowledge. Nevertheless, they are de facto ethnic demands, if only because that is how many Pashtoon political leaders react to them. I have had many opportunities to observe this reaction.
However, I do consider my knowledge of the SC inadequate. Most of the material I have on it concerns military questions.
I realize that the Jawzjan militia is only one organization and does not represent all Turkic speaking Afghans. Relations among ethnic groups seem to have been more difficult in Jawzjan than in most other regions. (The Jawzjan Uzbaks also supported Amir Habibullah II and drove out the Pashtoon khans at that time.) I should make dear that there are many different groups among die Turkic speakers.
I was interested in your comments on Pashtoon militias on the Faryab-Jawzjan border area. As far as I know there were two major Pashtoon groups in the area before 1978; Ishaqzai nomads who made their winter camps in the area and went up to
Ghor in die summer, and Nazarzai khans, who collaborated dosely with the government. I have heard that some of die Ishaqzai migrated first back to Kandahar and then to Baluchistan. Do you know if the Pashtoon militia come from one or both of these groups, or from some other group?
When did the Council of Commanders propose a federal system? It was somewhat inaccurate for me to imply that the Council of Commanders had proposed a worked-out federal system. What I had in mind was point two of the communique of October 13, 1990, which calls for "establishment of nine administrative zones throughout the country and . . . plans for the elections of responsible administrators for each zone. These administrators will be elected by the commanders, religious leaders, and elders in each zone." As you know, since the time of Amir Abdul Rahman Khan all the administrators in Afghanistan have been appointed by the center, not elected by die local people they were administering. The governments always tried to weaken the people's local organizations such as shura and jirga and id replace them with a system controlled from Kabul. Furthermore, die "joint administrative center" proposed in point 4 of the communique is subject to the shura, composed of commanders who are local leaders. Thus the local administration is locally elected and the national administration is supervised by representatives of the regions. This is not a fully federal system because it does not provide for a formal division of responsibilities among the different levels. Furthermore, it was intended as a response to die actual wartime conditions in the country, not as a permanent plan for die future. The commanders also demanded an Islamic government, and most Islamists seem to think that an Islamic government has to be a very centralized one so as not to encourage divisions within the umma and the mellaL I think, though, as you point out yourself in the end of your .note, that history shows that actual conditions are more powerful than ideology in determining political developments. This is true for all human beings, whatever their religion.
I am not sure what you mean by saying that my emphasis on "the fundamentalist factor and Arab involment is not well balanced." I notice that you do not claim anything I wrote on this is untrue, especially as some of it comes from AFGHANews. It is true, of course, that Arab involvement is declining and that it was mostly confined to one area of the country (the east). I have also heard that even some of the Afghan members of Jamaat al-Da'wa are unhappy with the Arab volunteers and want to have better relations with their fellow Mujahideen. Perhaps I should mention these facts in order to balance my account.
It is true that I was pessimistic and perhaps could have been more positive. Partly this is because 1 was trying to convey to a group of people who are not aware of the dimensions of the tragedy of Afghanistan just how bad the situation is. I also fear that Mujahideen leaders whose whole experience of politics is fighting against the gov-