- AFGHANavs VcA 4, Ho 13, August 1.1598, Peg* 3
Jeep was blown up fey Mujahideen in a fruit market in Kandahar city on June 12.
Ok the same slay the Mujahideen killed 15 soldiers, destroyed three APCs and set on fire two Russian jeeps in Hmrji area. Three Mujahideen were killed and eight were wounded in the whole operation.
•The Mujahideen carried out an operation on enemy posts in Bab Ghaai and Ar ghandafe Pass Killing eight soldiers and taking prisoner a militia commander namely Esmat on July i I,
The Mujahideen had no casualties in the fighting.
The report says that more villages in the mentioned areas were liberated from BRA control -
Zabul
The Mujahideen led fey Wakll jaiH attacked Shahlooy district destroying some APCs and taking prisoner 50
soldiers with their weapons and capturing 10 Kalashinkov rifles on June SO,
The fighting which lasted for 4 hours during which the Mujahideen lost three men and eight others .were wounded,
* The Mujahideen launched an attack on Shahr Safa district killing a militia commander and taking prisoner six soldiers with their weapons on June 10.
The next day the enemy sent fresh forces from Kandahar to recapture the district but were forced to retreat, The Mujahideen seized 2 APCs, one jeep and great amount of foodstuff.
On the same day the Mujahideen ambushed a ORA convoy coming from Kabul to Qaadahar. destroying three tanks, killing eight soldiers and taking prisoner 36 soldiers.
From the Mujahideen, a local commander was killed in
the fighting.
Ba eights
The DRA with the help of the Russian air force launched a massive operation in Ghoormaeh district involving 250 tanks and APCs and 13 jets taking off from the airfield in Faryafe province on June H.
The fighting continued for ten days during which the enemy jets bombed district villages killing more than 30 residents and destroying some houses. Eight tanks and APCs were destroyed fey mines planted by Mujahideen. More than 60 soldiers surrendered to the Mujahideen bringing with them light weapons.
The Mujahideen captured two DSchk, six heavy machine guns, 60 Kalashinkov rifles and three communication sets. The Mujahideen lost five and 12 others were injured.
who’s whom th& Mufahidmn
Commander
PAGHMAN, before j Communists took power and the Russians invaded Afghanistan, was one of the most beautiful resorts of Kabul located on its western flank. Being about 19 kilometers far from Kabul, it was very easy to escape the summer heat of the city.
Commander Ezat was born there 2? years ago in a small village called Khufa Musafer,
His father, Mohammad Reas, was a civil servant working in Kabul, His father knew some religious books. He was
Ezatullah
imprisoned fey the Russians In 19S2 in Puli Chart hi prison for four months,
"He was tortured not to allow his sons to fee Mujahid," said Commander Esat’s young?r brother, f&ats father was 64 years old when he was torture \ by the Russians.
Ezat was sent to Khuaia Musafer high school. He studied upto the!0th grade, "When the Communists took power, Esat left the school ant joined a group of Mujahideen under Commander Khalou,. He became an ordinary Mujahid. “He devoted himself totally to the cause/ remembered his brother* “It was my father wfec encouraged us to join the Mujahideen/' said his brother,
Upto 1535 Ezat was
working in Mr, Sayyaf s group, K was in 1965 that his group under Khaou joined Jamiat Islam!, When Commander Kbaiou was killed in a bombardment, Ezat was cheosen as the Commander of his group fey Mujahideen.
Now Esat Is a respected commander of jamiat In Faghman. in the beginning of the war, his base was in Dara Zorgaf and later due to the pressure from the Russians he shifted to another base tailed Sangtakh.
From early 1955 to late 19$6 the Russians escalated the level of fighting in and around Paghman.
Commander Ezat organised his groups into smaller sixes to cope with the situation. Very soon he expanded his operational genes and established contacts with other groups such as Anwari from Harak&t belonging to Mr. Mohs ini . Commander Em