AFGHANews Vol 6, No 1, January 1,1990, page ©
UN proposes a united forum to negotiate peace in Afghanistan
The UN General Secretary, Perez De Cuellar, who has a mandate to work for bringing peace to Afghanistan has proposed the formation of a body in which all the opposition groups of the regime should be represented.
The UN General Secretary has proposed the formation of an opposition delegation with a mandate to talk to him about ways of bringing peace to Afghanistan.
He has proposed that a 10 member delegation from the Interim Government, Iran based Mujahideen, pro-Zahir Shah people and commanders from inside should be formed.
This body should have a mandate to negotiate about seeking ways of finding a political solution to Afghanistan's problems.
This idea was discussed with a Mujahideen delegation which had gone to New York under leadership of Farooq Azam.
The Mujahideen have refused to deal with the Kabul regime. They only will accept transfer of power. The regime on the other hand is in favor of
sharing power with the resistance.
The Soviet Union has tabled a three item plan for the political solution for Afghanistan which includes: cease fire and moratorium of arms to both sides of the conflict, intra- Afghan dialogue, and an international conference under the auspices of the UN.
Pakistan's Prime Minister, Benazir Bhutto, has said to the Japanese newspaper, Mainich Daily, that for the interest of peace and stability the Soviets should persuade Najib to step down. She said Pakistan could not accept any person rejected by its people.
General Sagalov, who has served as the head of Soviet military advisors in Afghanistan from 1981 to 1981, has supported the continuation of Soviet military and economic aid to the Kabul regime.
He said despite economic difficulties at home, we should support our friends. He said the Afghan war has resulted in Soviet 15,000 dead, 50,000 wounded and all those who participated were psycologically affected.
'SALAM EXPRESS' leaves to Afghanistan via USSR
AFGHANews
| From page (6)	|
ing Afghanews is the lack of funding and availability of skilled staff: Our present efforts to overcome these problems have been less than successful. We have been forced to ask our readers to contribute donations to maintain the publication process, though we still issue our paper free to our readers.
The policy of the paper is to publish articles which adopt an objective stance on all issues, even if it means criticizing members of our own political movement We are very thankful to Professor Rabbani, the Jami'at leader who has been kind enough to have provided the funding for the paper without imposing restrictions on what can be written. Also, we are grateful that the Pakistani authorities have left us undisturbed despite some of the articles being in contradiction to their policy. Until now, we have received favorable feedback from our readers who respect our policy of objective writing.
We hope to one day publish Afghan news in a liberated Afghanistan where freedom of the press will be a established principle of the governing bodies. Also, we are researching the possibilities of publishing Afghanews in the Afghan national languages of Dari and Pushtu,
The publication of Afghanews has served Afghanistan during the struggle of liberation in being a voice of the people, and allowing English speakers an insight of the terrible realities of the war. Hopefully, the paper will soon be able to report on the progress of reconstructing Afghanistan into into a stable country.
US envoy meets Jami'at leader
On the December 11, Peter Tomsen, the United States Special Envoy to the Resistance held discussions with Professor Rabbani, where the leader of Jami'at stated that he believed that any holding of elections would prove difficult to organize. Professor Rabbani stressed that the he would support the formation of a representative Shoora.
During' the discussions, Mr. Tomsen reiterated that the government of the United States wanted the Interim government to broaden its base.
Stephen Solarz, a Democratic Congressman from the United States, recently visited officials of the Interim Government The held discussions centered upon ways of seeking peace in Afghanistan.
The train "Salam Exress", carrying relief good to Afghanistan left Rome on December 11.
It will go to the Afghan border via the Soviet Union. This is the second train which has been sent in the last few months which takes relief goods to regime controlled areas. UN sources claim that the goods are "for all Afghan" and will be distributed by the UN men.
It appears the UN did not negotiated with the interim government or Mujahideen commanders about sending food and its distribution in the areas controlled by them.
The political and military situation will not permit distribution of the relief goods coming from the regime territory to the liberated areas. Therefore, all UN goods will be distributed to the people under the regime's control.
The UN relief goods are used by the Kabul regime as a sign of its endorsement by the world community.
While the world's attention is drawn by the UN towards the plight of people in the occupied cities in Afghanistan, Pakistani authorities have complained about the decrease of aid to the refugees.
"Is it not a deliberate design by the UN to lure refugees to war tom Afghanistan by pouring relief goods in the cities and making life difficult for the refugees in the camps?"
If that is the case, it will be another mistake. Refugees will only return when the communist regime is replaced by a representative government.
Buzkashi played in Peshawar
Buzkashi games were played in Khurasan refugee camp at the outskirt of Peshawar on December 7 and 8.
Buzkashi is a traditional game played in the Northern of Afghanistan. It is a rough game in which two teams of horsemen contest to snatch a headless calf and circle it round their heads before dropping it in a nominated target goal area.
In the old days there was no limitation to the number of horsemen participating on each side, but the Olympic Committee of the Afghan government has introduced rules restricting ten riders for each competing team.