AFGHANews Vol 6, No 16, August 15,1990, page 0
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Cmdr. Abdullah Choopan
Abdullah Choopan, Jami'at commander in Pushtun Koot District, Faryab Province, leads more than 600 armed Mujahideen and controls major parts of Pushtun Koot. He is known to be a good fighter and the people admire him for his piety, fair treatment of the population and simple way of life.
Choopan has displayed CQurage and resilience on many occasions. In 1983, the communist forces captured his base and his area forcing him to become an internal refugee. After a month, he was able to regroup his scattered forces, retake his territory and even emerge stronger than before.
In one occasion ait the beginning of the war, he saved the life of 300 Mujahideen. The Mujahideen base near Maimana was attacked by the enemy forces. The enemy troops were supported by 20 jets and helicopters succeeded which allowed them to besiege the base, defended by 300 Mujahideen.
A strategic peak overlooking the base was controlled by Choopan. Despite the enemy's repeated ground and aerial attacks, he did not abandon his position and continued to right back. With the help of the heavy machine-gun fire he slowed down the enemy advance and opened a corridor through which the Mujahideen retreated.
Because of his education, he has built a relatively good organization in his area. His men are disciplined and obey him strictly. He is assisted in his demanding job by Lieutenant Nik
Mohammad, a graduate of Abu Muslim Madrasa, in Maimana. Nik Mohammad has completed Jami'at Military Academy.
Choopan spends the Mujahideen money properly and avoids levying un-Islamic taxes on local people. This policy of his has made life easier for the people under his control, adding to his reputation. It is said once his father came to him asking for some barley from the Mujahideen stock for his donkey. Choopan refused and politely advised him to sell his donkey.
Choopan has paid attention to the education of children. He has established a Madrasa which has six classes.
He began his Jehad after the communist coup. He became affiliated to the Islamic Movement when he was a student at the Abu Muslim Madrasa (a religious college run by the former government) in Maimana. He graduated from the 14 class of the Madrasa before beginning his armed struggle. First he was an ordinary Mujahid, but later became a commander. As time passed, he proved to be a good leader. He expanded his territory and increased the number of his men.
Choopan likes reading and never misses listening to the news on the radio. He enjoys good health despite being wounded lightly twice.
Choopan was bom 29 years ago in an Ozbak family in Dahan Dara village, Pushtun Koot District His father, Tengri Qull, was a farmer. He is married and has two children.
Cmdr. Arbab Abdul Hafiz
Arbab Abdul Hafiz is Jami'at commander in Almar sub-District who leads more than 1,000 armed Mujahideen. He was an influential person in his area before the war. He has been wounded several times.
His Mujahideen have fought in Almar, Maimana, the provincial capital of Faryab and other district alongside other Mujahideen groups. Recently he has shown great interest in working with other Mujahideen. He is sympathetic to the Suoervisory Council headed by Ahmad Shah Masood.
Arbab Hafiz can be described as a traditional leader who rules the people by old ways. In the areas he controls, traditional mosque and modem schools are opened for the children.
Arbab Hafiz tries to solve local issue by simple means. Last year he waged war against sunnpest which de-
stroy wheat crops.
Sunnpest are fought normally through periodical spray. But Arbab had no medicine or equipment to fight the tiny dangerous insects. He asked the people to collect the eggs of the sunnpest from the mountains and deserts and sell it to him to be destroyed. He bought seven kilograms of sunnpest for 4,000 Afghanis, four times the price of wheat. He bought 11. 8 tons of sunnpest eggs and destroyed them. Local people say though the operation did not eliminate the danger, but it had a positive effect on farm products.
Arbab Hafiz was bom in 1949 in an Ozbak wealthy family. His father, Abdul Wahid was an influential person in Almar. He is married and has foyr children.
government	Bhutto
10	been
sfllo Jg§§| the:caii||||ij|]Prin^
Pakii^an soppam He struggle of the Afghans to secure their right of self
Prof. Mujaddidi left Peshawar on i provinces to meet the
Mujahideen.
The President of Pakistan dis*

|' J||^;.Sovllipmort: has decreased] die Kabul regmioJ [Western sources reported. Moscow] barrels of oif^eachl day to the regime. The Kabul regime] iw^maimf; runs on the imported] fuel frqm ilie Soviet Union ami ariy ■: irt'; fuel supply to] Kabul w0! affect its military] [acdytries.	pf|ij
' Soviet Union provides Kabul with about one millioft HI of food stuflfe oath year, Tfoi Soviet Union buys 3 J million tons of food from outside for its own domestic needs. Experts believe the eco-j noroic burden of the Soviet involve! I mem in Al^an*^^
[factor in Soviet desire to find a poliM
ty flown to the Soviet Union for
por^,31^f'^^wn will stayonel month	|
I Jsbndi^ of S|ghan t^fldren to] j fte?||&vi^	dtffing	the]
Soviet occupation of	tan.B
India and Ba K^bpjat the
parliament. While the visit of the]
pi|H	be-|
cause of close ties between Delh^nd | Kabul, it is not dear H|
M
m