BAGHLAN PROVINCE
    1-12-85
       Mujahideen of Jamiat attacked a militia post in Shashan, a. side Valley of Andarab District, After 7 hours of fighting 90 militias including their commander were captured.
       Mujahideen captured the following weapons:
       1- One -82rara mortar with 60 rounds,
       2- Thirty-six AK-47 guns,
       3- Fifty-four Carabine guns,.
      . 4- One R-105 communication set.
       Five tanks were set on fire, k. militias were killed and five , others injured. One Mujahid was martyred during the operation, • v Some clothes and food stuff, were also captured,
                              AFGHA^^CAUSE^SABOTAGED^XN^I.O.C
                                        ■#
        The Islamic Organization Conference is a folium in whieh the problems of the muslim world are being dissussed.
        Since the begining of the Soviet invasion, this organization has passed resolutions in support of the cause of the people of Afghanistan.                       •
        The problem with I,0,C is that a few Arab nnuntries, like Lybia, Syria, South Tamen and the PLO usually try to show that v, support for the cause of Afghanistan undermines the oause of Palestine «
        In the recent conference for the foriegn ministers of Islamic countries in Morocco, the cause of Afghanistan was sabotaged both by the Soviet Union , through its friends in .the conference, and the U.3.A who threatened Lybia with military and economic actions cn the eve of the conference.
        The friends of the Soviets exploited the situation in a good
    way to divert the attention of the conference towards the so-called
    II,S attack on Lybia, The Mujahideen delegation presented the*'** case
    to the conference and a resolution was passed in support of the
    people of Afghanistan, but the Afghan issue was not given lbs pro-\ .
*■ per importance,.
        We reject the view of the so-called radical states who say that the Afghan cause undermines the importance of Palestinian problem and think that the massacres of Sabra and Shatilla by Zionists are as painful as the massacres of the people of Afghanistan by the Red Army,
        American policy makers acted emotionally, ehoslng a wrong time
                               i
    for their compaign against Lybia, The only winner in this, game was the Soviet Union who avoided strong criticism and condemnation of their atrocities in Afghanistan without being directly involved in it.