IN THE NAME OF ALMIGHTY ALLAH
AFGHAN*^
         A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM I'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
               VOL. Ill, NO. 5, 1/3/1987.
                                           GENEVA PROXIMITY TALKS
 Proximity talks on Afghanistan, between the government of Pakistan and the puppet regime will start in Geneva on Feb. 26. This is the Slh round of such talks which has continued since 1982 under the auspices of the United Nations                    **
 The 8th round is of some special importance Soviet officials,privately and publicly have tried to give the impression that they want to withdraw their forces from Afghanistan The softness of Soviet tone has been interpreted by some Observe to possible change in policy.
                                                             4
 To pave the road for their later-political moves they ordered their puppets to announce a ceasefire and reconciliation program both of which failed to get the approval of the resistance both inside and outside Afghanistan.
 The sharp edge of pre-Geneva campaign of the Soviets and their puppets was directed towards Pakistan, the host of three million Afghan Refugees. Besides massive propaganda against the resistance they started to create an atmosphere of distrust between the local people and refugees through brutal act.pf terror against civilian targets which was followed by anti-refugee detoosntrations organized by the elements sympathetic to the Soviet policies. The whole purpose of this campaign was to intimidate Pakistan to accept a settlement on the Soviets terms.
 From all the meetings between Pakistani officials and Soviets and Irani officials with the Soviets and UN representative's shuttle diplomacy it seems that there may be some new developments in the efforts for finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
 One can not predict what will the Soviets offer in Geneva when a time-table for the withdrawal of Soviet troops will be discussed The real intentions of Soviets are not not known If the Soviets want to withdraw their forces in a short period of time, something Pakistan is demanding, the immediate question would be asked: Who will rule Afghanistan? If Soviets insist on their so-called democratic puppets that does not lead to peace because Mujahideen will continue to fight. If after the withdrawal of their forces they see that the puppets are in danger of destruction by the Mujahideen without outside aid, what would be their reaction? All the above questions can not answered in Geneva because the Soviets and Mujahideen who are principle elements of the conflict are not there.
 For Afghan Resistance the following points are great importance:
        1- Immediate, total and unconditional withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan.
        2- The right of the people of Afghanistan for self-determination,
        3- Restoration of Islamic and non-aligned status of Afghanistan.
 Afghan Resistance is watching the developments very closely. It welcomes any step which leads to the freedom 9f Afghanistan and will oppose anything less than that.
                    The world will see very soon what the Soviets offer when the time-table for the