Vol 4. No 13
July I, 198$
Gailani sets
90 days for
election
IN his first press conference after assuming the position of the current chair man of the Alliance of the Afghan Mujahideen. Sayyed Ahmad Gaiiani has emphasized about holding general elections in
Afghanistan and in the refugee camps for a national assembly.
Sftyyed Ahmad Gallant is the leader of NIFA, one of the seven members of the A11 lance. He replaced Hekmatyar, the leader of Hezb Sstami and will hold the position for three months starting from June 15.
In the same meeting which took place in the headquarters of the Alliance on June 19. a fourteen member cabinet of the interim government of the Mujahideen was also announced.
Ahmad Shah the Prime Minister of the interim government introduced 12 ministers and two deputy prime ministers drawn from the seven parties which have formed the AH lance, Each party has Introduced two
persons for the interim cabinet.
The Supreme Council of the Alliance has decided to go ahead with the program of general elections for forming an assembly. However, some of the parties within the Alliance see practical difficulties in holding general elections inside Afghanistan. These parties, and jsmi at is one of them, are afraid that if elections inside face problems the mult of elections in the refugee camps will give a false picture of the strength cf the parties.
During the chairmanship of Gailani, Ccrdoves will resume hi# efforts to form a broad-toed government in Afghanistan. He has outlined his plan in the form of holding a so-called Loya Jirga and involvement of the ex-king, This proposal will suke the position of some parties including NIFA of which Gailani is its leader and will face rejection by others.
Observers are afraid that Mr, Cordovea's efforts will further divide Afghans , The three months that Gailani will be the chairman of the Aiiisuice is a critical time, in this per led most of the Soviets are supposed to withdraw and great changes in the military Held are expected.
THE Mujahideen will provide security for the UN observer team whenever it is possible, said the Jami'at leader in a press conference held on June 20,
Prof. R&bbam however said it is the duty of the Soviets and the puppet regime to provide security for the UN personnel in the occupied areas of Afghanistan.
He warned that the puppet regime may harm the UN personnel and put the blame cm the Resistance,
The UN has a 25-man observer team In Kabul. The head of the team had & meeting with the leaders of the Resistance and they assured him of their support.
The UN team is using an Mi'S Russian helicopter which is painted white and hears the mark of the UN to be recognized by the Resistance. The white dove of the UN is unarmed.
Soviet helicopters have been responsible for deaths or thousand of Afghans, If the donated helicopter is not brand new it might have been used in the killing of the people of Afghanistan A defenseless villager enee said the harshest sound to him was the noise of Helicopters. Now UN people say although their helicopter is made in Russia and possibly participant in the aggression, it has converted into a peace dove.