    AFGHAN MEWS gfikJI____WO. H     5-71W
PAGE 3
     Generally speaking the visit was a useful political step. The only draw-back to this visit was the open opposition of two leaders of the Resistance. Although these two were the minorities they could not keep quite. While we know what they are saying, we can not accept their reasoning. A delegation headed by Prof. B. Rabbani will not do anything to harm the Resistance. The delegation was fully aware of the delicacy of the situation and on several occasions announced that it had not come to make Afghanistan an East -West issue. The delegates openly said to American leaders that Afghanistan is an Islamic country and belongs to the muslim world. The Resistance must behave in a reasonable way. We have to take our cause every where and demand our natural right from everybody. The Resistance on different occasions has said that it demands from the Soviets unconditional withdrawal of their forces from Afghanistan is ready to talk to them. If the Resistance can sit with the Soviets there is no reason not to sit with others who have not been responsible for the present situation in Afghanistan.
     On top of ail this there is no Islamic law which prohibits such contacts. As an Islamic movement the Afghan Resistance must follow the precepts of Islam not of individuals.
                                    SOLIDARITY WITH AFGHANISTAN
     The underground leadership of the solidarity movement in Poland declared
     the first of May the day of "Solidarity with Afghanistan"
     This is a friendly gesture towards the cause of the people of Afghanistan and ail Afghans congratulate the Solidarity movement on this occasion. We support the struggle of the Polish people for democracy and freeedom from foreign influence.
                          LEADER S VISIT TO U.S.A. CRITICISED BY THE PUPPET REGIME
     On June 18, the puppet regime criticised the Alliance Delegation s visit to the U.S. The puppets called this visit an interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and threat to the so-called "political settlement" of the Afghanistan issue.
                THE JAM I AT DELEGATIONS TRIP TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
     A delegation from Jamiat, headed by Dr. Abdul Hay, the Chairman of the Education Committee of Jamiat Isiami visited Iran in the middle of May.
     The delegation took part in the Ai-Quds conference which was convened in Qum. The leader of the delegation told the conference about the situation in Afghanistan and about Islamic nature of Jehad movement in Afghanistan.