RFBHflH NEWS VOL .111, NO.g, 1/S(' 1907 PftCE 10
 As far as the Soviets are concerned, they have carried out cross border operations since their invasion of 1979. Even before their invasion, Soviet military planes very often crossed the border for reconnaissance purposes (the ■writer was a witness to such an incursion in October of 1979 in Badakhshan province),
 During the major offensives Soviet border guards cross the border to operate against the Mujahideen, and commandos are airlifted from the other side of the Oxus river to the battle fields in the North, North-East and North-West parts of the country. Bombing of the villages of Afghans by planes flown from the bases inside the Soviet territory is a common practice. Border puppet posts are supplied from Soviet territory and even they are provided with heavy weapons support fire. Prisoners taken from the border areas in Afghanistan are flown to the Soviet Union and after interrogation are, delivered to the puppets. It has been seen that during the operations Soviet soldiers load their helicopters with captured goods and even animals and take them to the Soviet Union.
 The Soviet news media discloses the attacks on Soviet territory to justify their massacres and large scale "circle and suppress” operations in the North of Afghanistan. Such an attack was launched against Imam Sahib in Qunduz province a month ago which left a trail of death and destruction behind it.
 In short, Soviets cross border operations are common and those of the Mujahideen are isolate incidents. The Soviets try to use the isolated incidents to justify their massacres and other forms of atrocities.
 As far as the idealogical threat to the central Asian Republics are concerned the threat comes from the Soviet system itself The people of this area were Muslims with a rich cultural heritage. Soviets crushed their culture and attacked their religion. The suppressive measures taken by the Soviet leaders did not eliminated the love of Islam from the hearts of Muslims. Racial discrimination, imposition of the Russian language and culture and lack of freedom are the common causes of dis-satisfaction among the Muslims in the Soviet Union The problems of this sort has their roots in the Soviet system The struggle of the people of Afghanistan is for the liberation of their country and it does not have a direct link with the situation there. If this war for the liberation has an indirect effect on the people of Central Asia, the warlords of the Kremlin must be blamed for it because they invaded Afghanistan and forced the people of that country to defend themselves against aggression.
                                              AIRLINK WITH DUBAI
 The puppet regime has announced the resumption of their airlink with Dubai Although the commercial element of such activity is not considerable, the puppets are using this for political reasons.
 There is a saying in Afghanistan ” If the handle of an axe is not from a tree, it can not cut it down”. If Islamic countries had fulfilled their responsibilities by cutting their relationship with the Soviet invaders and their puppets in Afghanistan, the tragedy in Afghanistan would have come to an end much earlier. Conservative policies towards this regime and the Soviet invaders have encouraged the puppets and the Soviets to be hopeful about the future,
 We hope that the United Arab Emirates will pay attention to the political dimension of such a deal with a puppet regime which has been brought to power by Soviet troops, and revise its position. If Arabs boycott, Israel because of the occupation of Palestine, they should apply this rule to the Soviets who have occupied Afghanistan.If they are hesitant to take such a step against the Soviet Union which is a superpower, there is no justification for such deals with their puppets who have no legal status and is the enemy of Islam.
                                                          am