  AFGHAN NEWS VOL. II___NSLJi___Wmite______PAGO
 From amongst the regugees few can afford the expense. This year a total of 210 out of 3 million people were be able to perform Haj. It is;a very small number.
 This is an example of how the invasion has hada serious detrimental effect on the hves of Afghans, Few people are able to perform a religious obligation. Before the war 12,000 people performed Haj each year.
 On behalf of the Mujahideen and MuhajireenlRefugees) of Afghanistan, Jam! at Islami Afhgnaisntan,congratulates all Muslim-brothers and sisters all over the world on the occasion of RfDUL -U7J1A. We ask our Muslim brothers and sisters to pray for the liberation of Afghanistan from the occuption of Godless Communists.
 May you all have a happy FID.
 AN QPKN LHTTEK TO THE GOVERNMENT AND PEOPLE OF ZIMBABWE
 First of all please accept the best regards of the Mujahideen, of Afghanistan •who are lighting to free their country from the occupation of Soviet aggressors.
 You may know that the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in 1979 and since then a bloody war has continued . As a result of this war 500,000 people have been killed (U.N Human Right Commission Report) five million people became refugees in the neighbouring countries of Iran and Pakistan , a further two millions have become refugees inside their own country and 75% of all villages and towns have been destroyed.
 The Soviet pretext that they have come to defend the government of Afghanistan against foriegn intervention has been rejected by the whole worid.The Soviets came and killed the head of the government and Installed a regime whose head they brought from the Soviet Union. More than 95% of the people of Afghanistan supported the liberation war and continue to support it now.
  The Afghan problem has drawn the attention of the world community. Seven successive times the U.N general assembly has voted .with a large majority for the withdrawal of the Soviet troops, Non-aligned countries and the 0.1 ,C have passed simiiiar resolutions . but the Soviets have not listen to the appeal of the world and continue to persue their aims through military means.