-	-	AFGHANews	Vol5,	No	10,	May	15,1989, page ©
Com.Masood advises formation of united command for attack
on Kabul
A group of western journalists met with Commander Ahmad Shah Masood in Panjshir valley on April 13 and asked him about his plans. The following is the account of their interview:
Summary
The attack on Kabul should be launched by all the Mujahideen forces especially those who have bases around Kabul. I am busy taking account of my forces in and around Kabul. After completion of the evaluation 1 will take appropriate steps to deal with the enemy.
Kabul is a vulnerable target It can be besieged easily. The people of Kabul detest the regime and the enemy forces forces assigned to defend Kabul has many shortcomings in terms of quality and quantity. The reaction of the enemy forces defending Kabul depends on the behavior of the Mujahideen in dealing with the soldiers and others who surrender to them in other places. If the capture of other cities is orderly and those who surrender are dealt with properly the enemy soldiers will not put up a tough resistance. Party people will fight but their number is not sufficient to defend the capital on their own.
I have contacted commanders around Kabul like Abdul Haq and Anwari. Formation of a united command is necessary before launching the final attack on Kabul. If any of the Mujahideen brothers can provide a united leadership I am ready to work under him.
We have not prevented food and fuel to reach Kabul so that the ordinary people should not suffer, but have blocked the Salang fen the enemy military convoys.
Our struggle is Jehad. It is not a contest between Piishtqns and Tajiks or a war between North and South. Jami'at has considerable influence in Pushtuspeaking areas and we have contacts with distinguished Push tun commanders. We have had problems with Hizb and other Mujahideen parties have problem with it too. But the problems are lesser than the past
There is no possibility of compromise with the communist regime. Our aim is to eliminate the communist parly and establish an Islamic system.
Despite the shortcomings of the
interim government of the Mujahideen, we endorse it for the greater interest of Muslims.
Q. When you have cleared the North East of government troops do you plan to train an orderly force for the taking of Kabul: is this still your plan?
A. In the name of God the most merciful. It is not my plan to train a force and attack Kabul independently. Rather I envisage preparing the ground in such a way that all the important Mujahideen bases, especially those around Kabul, should cooperate under a united leadership, to attack kabul. This work has already begun and I have been in touch with other commanders.
Q. Do you want to clear the North East of government troops before attacking Kabul, or not?
A. That depends on circumstances. If we see that circumstances are favorable and that God willing we can occupy Kabul, then in that case it is not necessary to keep our forces engaged in the North. It would be better to seize the opportunity and attack Kabul . Otherwise we could probably start the campaign in the remoter areas like Kunduz and Mazar Sharif.
Q. What are your forces doing now?
A. At the moment 1 am busy taking account of my own forces of men I have: within the army in Kabul. In my opinion the government troops in Kabul are very vulnerable. First, because Kabul is a city that could easily be besieged by Mujahideen. It has only two means of access to the outside world: one is the airport of Kwajarawash arid the other, the Salang highway- and (now)’the Salang is mostly blocked. Secondly the people of Kabul as has been proved in the past and as I know from accurate information, really detest this regime. There also remains the question of the government armed forces within the city of Kabul. Which in terms of quantity and quality have such serious shortcomings. They will not be able to resist an orderly attack which takes place under a united leadership.
Q. Will you be able to convince
Najib's troops around Kabul to surrender without fighting?
A. The forces in Kabul will not resist but only if the Mujahideen are able to take some important cities before attacking Kabul and if the treatment of soldiers and civilians is truly conciliatory and Islamic, I am certain that the soldiers in Kabul will not put up a stiff resistance and not much blood will be shed. But of course , certain party members who for years have betrayed their people and have committed crimes, (they) will put up a determined struggle. But these are a minority and can in no way defend Kabul on their own.
Q. We saw a large convoy taking food and fuel to Kabul. What is your policy about convoys coming from the soviet Union?
A. Not only now as you have witnessed, but also at no time in the past have I ever prevented food or fuel getting to the people of Kabul. We have always tried to ensure that food convoys reach Kabul safely. This is because the people of Kabul have suffered unduly from food shortages, and this same policy continues now.
But since the fighting around Jalalabad has started, we have closed the Salang to convoys carrying military supplies to the enemy. And as much as the government tries to reopen the road it has been unable to do so. The forces that die government was bringing from Mazar to reinforce Jalalabad are still waiting in Pul-e-Khumri or Khenjan, waiting for the road to open. For the last two months the Mujahideen in the Salang have been resisting ceaselessly, blocking the road only to let the enemy military convoys-though not to let food or civilian supplies through going to Kabul.
In the present conditions, when there are no serious attacks on Kabul it is not necessary to cut off all food supplies from civilians. But of course, whenever it is decided to make a serious attack on Kabul then that will be the time when all the supplies to Kabul will be cut off.
I have received the news that the government is stockpiling food and using it to further its military aims. I have therefore issued warnings that food supplies must be distributed to die ci-