AFGHANews Vol 8, No 5, March 1,1992, page ©
Mujahideen observe the 'Hoot' uprising
The 12th anniversary of uprising of the people of Kabul against the Soviet invasion was commemorated in Peshawar and the liberated areas of Afghanistan.
A big rally was organized in Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar, by the Cultural Committee of the Supervisory Council. Speakers praised the sacrifices of the unarmed jeople in Kabul in defense of their aith and country.
The people of Kabul launched a raaceful campaign against the Soviets and their puppets in winter of 1980. They began going to the rooftops each night and shouted Allah-u-Akbar (God is great). The people were encouraged by religious scholars to join the campaign.
On February 22 (Hoot 3), 1980, a peaceful procession was taken out, in which students from colleges and schools also took pari. A large number of women and school girls took part in the demonstration. Regime troops, >acked and advised by the Soviets, opened fire on the demonstrators, killing at least 300 and wounding many more. Among those killed were a considerable number of girls. More than
1,000 demonstrators were arrested. This day is called "Black Friday".
The brutal suppression of the peaceful demonstration ended the nonviolent campaign. Since that time, only token political processions have been allowed in Kabul. To demonstrate so-called political pluralism, Najib last year allowed two processions by pro-Zahir Shah people, but the meetings were disrupted by plane-clothes policemen who claimed to be supporters of the Mujahideen.
Some Mujahideen parties are studying the possibility of using civil unrest in Kabul as a weapon to topple the regime. They argue that this approach will prevent the massive bloodshed caused by a military offensive against Kabul. The Kabul regime claims it tolerates peaceful gatherings. The presence of the UN, foreign envoys and journalists might limit the regime's opportunities to crush peaceful gatherings.
But keeping in mind the brutal nature of the government, those considering this means should not rule out a possibly violent reaction by the Kabul authorities against defenseless people.
Price rocketing worries Kabulis
Prices of food and essential commodities have rocketed this winter, causing severe hardship in Kabul.
The collapse of the Soviet Union has dealt a fiscal blow to the cash-strapped Kabul regime, which now has to trade in hard currency rather than barter with the new republics on its northern border.
Civil servants, who normally benefit from food coupons providing free wheat, suger and tea, grumble because they have been offered only four months of free provisions.
Prices began rising by almost IS percent in December following a sharp rise in the dollar's value.
The dollar now fetches 1,250 Afghanis, after costing 1,800 Afghis at the beginning of 1992. The fall in dollar value, however, has not reduced the price of essensial commodities.
Much of the bitterness steins from the discrepancy between pay and prices. On an average, a senior government officials gets 10,000 Afghanis a month - enough to buy five kilos of meat Not many can afford mutton, chicken or beef, which cost between
2,000 to 2,500 Afghanis a kilo, and increase of about 1,000 Afghanis since December.
Beans cost 800 Afghanis a kilo, up from 350 Afghanis, while prices of cereals have gone up from 200 to 500 Afghanis a kilo.
Garlic has shot up from 140 Afghanis to 11,140 a kilo, while a litre of kerosene costs 600 Afghanis.
Tripartite contract enables regime to receive aviation fuel
An informed source in Kabul has revealed that the Kabul regime is getting fuel,] including aviation fuel-in a tripartite deal involving the re- i gime, Turkmenistan and Iran.
The source said the Soviet Union owed Iran some money which possibly was spent in projects in Tukmenistan. After the breakup of I the Soviet Union, Tukmenistan agreed to shoulder the debt. Instead] of paying cash, it was agreed that Turkmenistan would provide fuel to1 Kabul; and Kabul would then pay Iran.
One month ago, a captured officer I of the regime told the Mujahideen that Iran was providing fuel to Kabul through Turkmenistan. It seems that he | was referring to this tripartite deal.
The source said Turkmenistan sold | 2000 tons of jet fuel, as well as other fuel supplies, to the Kabul regime.
The Kabul regime had entered into I similar arrangements with Kazkhstan [ and India. India gave tea to Kazakhstan and in return Kazakhstan is to give| wheat to Kabul.
Sending fuel to Kabul is a viola-1 don of the agreement reached between the Mujahideen and the officials of the ] former Soviet Union in Moscow in November last year. The Soviet Union | had agreed to stop sending arms, ammunition and fuel used for military] purposes.
The Kabul regime and I Tukmenistan have agreed to establish diplomatic relation and open their embassies in Kabul and Ashkhabad