AE&HANws Voi 1 No 10, May 15,1986, Page 3
 I Russians have sent more reinforcements from Shindand.
      Besides the Jami'at Mujahideen, the Mujahideen from Hezb isiami (Khalis), Harakat inqilab isiami and Mahaz-i- Miii also participated in the operations.
 ! Kapisa
       The Mujahideen disrupted DRA celebrations of the communist coup of April in Guibahar textile mills by shelling the enemy positions and blocking the Kabul-Guibahar road on April 26th.
      The enemy was forced to cancel their celebration of the so-called Saur Revolution .
      It is believed that tbe j enemy suffered heavy casualties the details of which are not available. Several residential quarters of the communists were also destroyed.
      The Mujahideen from Shutul, a side valley at the mouth of Panjshir valley killed lour Russians and injured three others on April 26.
      The Mujahideen lost three men in the above operations
   Balkb
       The Mujahideen from j Jami'af attacked an enemy i supply convoy, destroyed one 1 armored car and two trucks | and took prisoner four soldiers j on the nineth of April,
       The convoy was carrying a food supply to Marmoo! area when it came under the Mujabideens attack.
     Ghoor
       In two different operations ! the Mujahideen killed 12 | militiamen, captured 35 j Kalashinkove rifles and two | machine guns. Thirty j militiamen also joined the j Mujahideen.
       The first operation took
 place in Chighchiran area in which 30 militias joined Mujahideen with their weapons on seventh of April.
   The second attack was against a DRA post in Shahrak district on April 1 i. As a resuit. 12 militiamen were killed seven guns were seized.
                                                                                                Two Mujahideen were injured in the operation.
 War dak
    The Mujahideen attacked a DRA polling station in Maidan, the provincial capital, killing 13 soldiers and wounding nine others on the fourth of April.
   Two military vehicles were also set on (ire.
 Herat
    A well-known KHAD commander joined the Mujahideen with three
 mortars, two Dschks, 25 machine guns and two vehicles on the third of April.
   AbduS Khaiiq surrendered to Kaji Wazsr jami'at isiami commander in Karckh district.
 Kandabar
     Under the The Mujahideen s pressure a regime unit of 100 men stationed in Speen Bcoldak areas abandoned its positions on 22 April, Meanwhile, a Russian battalion also left Argbistan district.
   fighting between the Mujahideen and the regime's forces is still continuing in Shoarabak district.
   In another operation on a Russian armoured column, the Mujahideen destroyed two A PCs and killed an unknown number of their crew on April 26.
   The attack took place in Dand Mahalajat at the vicinity of Kandahar city.
Students’
   leader
supports
                                                                              I
    Jehad
  THE President of the Muslim Student’s Society of Nigeria has expressed solidarity vith the Afghan Resistance.
  In a letter to jami'at Isiami. Zikrullah Olakunle Hassan. the National President of the Muslims Student s Society of Algeria, has said that he is expressing his moral support on behalf of j 16 million Muslim students of j Nigeria.
  Zikrullah Hassan says: "whenever tbe heroic struggle j of Afghan Mujahideen comes j to my mind, i am envious of | those brothers and sisters ! who lay their lives for Allah.'j He believes that the defeat j of the Soviet invaders is inevitable and very soon Afghanistan will be free.
  Zikrullah sympathises with the Afghan nation for their prolonged suffering. He regrets that the Muslim world, despite its size, has not been able to defend the Afghans properly.
  He prays for the victory of the Mujahideen and all oppressed people in every corner of the world.
   ALCOHOL KILLS 10,000 IN USSR
 IZVESTIYA reported on March! 1 that more than 10. 000 people died ol poisoning in j the Soviet Union last year as j a result of drinking alcohol surrogates
                                                                               j