nnswvH HEiss wl.iv, ho.5., My/ (908 PBGE3
 But the puppet regime would not last for more than a couple of months without the support of the Red Army, no matter how much arms and ammunitions it might have. At least three reasons can be mentioned for the rapid disintegration of the puppet regime: (1) The lack of a reliable military force. The puppet government has failed to raise the number of conscripts over 30,000. Since most of the conscripts are taken into military service by force, they run away as soon as they can. The “pro-government" militia troops are forced to cooperate with the Russians by the circumstances. Many of them have some kind of relation with the Mujahideen as well. {£) The morale of the PDPA members and those who have been coopted is low. The number of defections has increased manifold since the Russians have shown readiness to withdraw from Afghanistan. <3) Beep divisions and disunity within PDPA.
 To insure the survival of their puppets, the Russians might leave behind a large number of their troops in the guise of "advisors" or local militias. Certainly these troops cannot do much against the Mujahideen. But their presence will boost the morale of the puppets. The Russians might hope that the Mujahideens' activities will decrease and. finally die out by loosing the support of Pakistan and the international community because of the Geneva Agreement.
 3. After the Geneva Agreement, if the Russians are not able to keep their troops in Afghanistan in disguise, or if the troops are not able to crush the Mujahideen, then the Russians might play the third scenario. In this case, when the Kabul puppet Regime is on the verge of going down, the Russians might bring back their troops, and this time “at the invitation of the recognized Government of Afghanistan" (this is what the Geneva Agreement amounts to).
 Mujahideen activities will certainly continue. But the Russians might think that the confusion of their troop withdrawal will bring disarray to the Mujahideen ranks. Moreover, with the cessation of the Pakistani and international support, the Mujahideen will not be able- to mount successful operations.
 4. The fourth scenario is the Russians going for the "partition option." Vith or without a Geneva agreement, the Russians might try through a "coup d'etat " to bring to power in Kabul a government which they think can serve their interests. Or they might try to create confusion in the country. In either case, they might withdraw their troops from the south but claim that since they do not feel secure about their southern borders, they have to use Northern Afghanistan as a "security belt."
                                 * # * * *
 ?e hope we are wrong about Russia's real intentions. If it tries to play any of the above scenarios, however, it will mean that the suffering of the Afghan people will continue. It will also mean that Russia's problems in Afghanistan and their consequences on the domestic scene of Russia and at the international level will continue as well. The Russians must not forget that Mujahideen started their struggle against the Red Army with almost empty hands. Their main weapon was, and still is, their strong faith ir. God. Only after the Mujahideen proved their valor, did others take serious interest in their cause.
 Also the Russians must not forget that they cannot fool all the people all the times. Their propaganda and political maneuvers might