AFGHANews Vol 8, No 13, July 1,1992, page @
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Prof. Burhannuddin Rabbani
Ustaz Burhanuddin Rabbani, the first head of the Islamic State of Afghanistan and one of the founding figure of the Islamic Movement, has spent most of his life in struggle to safeguard the territorial and ideological frontiers of the country.
He had the honor of founding Jami'at Islami Afghanistan, the party which played a key role in 14 years of Jehad against the Soviet Union and its puppets. Mujahideen commanders such as Ahmad Shah Masood. Ismail . Khan, -Zabihullah Shaheed and scores of others whose services to Jehad were so vital emerged under his leadership.
Ustaz was living in exile in Peshawar, Pakistan, when the communist coup of 1978 took place in Kabul. He had left Afghanistan in 1974 when President Daud began to suppress the Islamic Movement. He went first to the tribal areas and then to Peshawar.
Daud's regime jailed many members of the Islamic Movement. Prof. Rabbani and a small number of other leaders of movement, who had managed to avoid arrest, discussed their future strategy in exile. They reached the decision that with the presence of communist elements within the Claud's government, there was no chance for the movement to take part in the political process.
They decided to prepare for military operations against the communist elements to force Daud to change his pro-communists policies. The government of Zulfiqar Ati Butto provided some facilities for the movement because it had problems of its own with the regime in Kabul.
In exile, Ustaz wrote articles and booklets describing the situation in Afghanistan. In one of his booklets he had predicted a dangerous future for Daud, which proved to be correct.
He visited Saudi Arabia to ask for that country's support for the Islamic Movement King Faisal treated him with affection but refused to promote his cause because he considered Daud to be a nationalist rather than a communist.
At this time, the Movement was divided into two groups. Gulbuddin Hikmaiyar created a new party called Hezb Islami Afghanistan. Ustaz Rabbani's attempts to keep the unity of
the movement failed due to Hczb's extremist policies. Ustaz kept silent about differences in the movement for many years so that the door for its unity would not be closed. Differences within the party surfaced after the failure of military operations launched by the movement against Daud in 1975.
After the April coup of 1978, the political situation in Afghanistan was drastically changed. Extremist policies of the communists prepared the people of Afghanistan for confrontation with the government. Jami'at intensified its underground activities and began to launch guerrilla attacks on the communist regime. The Islamic Movement assumed the leadership role in a spontaneous mass uprising of Afghan people against communists.
During 14 years of Jehad, Jami'at, under the leadership of Ustaz Rabbani, emerged as the most effective party of the resistance. Jami'at fronts played the key role in defeating the Red Army. This organization had the honor of leading the final assault against the Kabul regime and contributed positively to the liberation of Afghanistan and establishment of the Islamic government in Kabul.
Ustaz Rabbani's style of leadership gave Jami'at a chance to become an important political and military power. He did not believe in . remote control of military, operations, and gave freedom to commanders to initiate their own military operations. This policy gave a chance for the commanders with leadership qualities to expand their power and influence.
Ustaz has refused to let his policies
be influenced by outside powers. For a party with its political base-outside the country and being supplied from outside, it was extremely difficult to follow an independent line. But he did not barter foreign assistance lor control of Jami'at military and political programs from outside.
Not only did Jami'at have the military initiative in its hand, iL also was very active in the political field to unite the Mujahideen. Jami’aL initiated the formation of National Liberation From wiLh the help of Prof. Mujaddidi, immediately after the communist coup. It played a key role in all the alliances formed to coordinate the Mujahideen military and political activities.
Ustaz tried to bring Sunni and Shia parties onto one platform and committed himself to the protection of the rights of all sections of Afghan society. In these efforts, he did not seek a a special position for himself, and in most cases accepted the leadership of minor parties.
When the Kabul regime was about to fall to the Mujahideen, the Jami’at leader, despite his ability to announce his government, struggled tirelessly for the formation of an interim government acceptable to the majority of the Mujahideen parties. These efforts succeeded and the way for transfer of power to Lhc Mujahideen was paved.
Ustaz Rabbani has played a positive role in introduction of Jehad to the outside world. He has attended numerous seminars, conferences and other international gatherings as the representative of the Mujahideen. He has represented Afghan Mujahideen in an OIC summit and several meetings of foreign ministers of the Islamic coun-. tries. He also has paid official visits to several Islamic, Western and African countries to get their support for the Afghan Jehad. His historic meeting with Ronald Reagan was aimed ai gel ting official recognition for the Afghan resistance.
Ustaz's efforts earned a positive image for the Afghan Jehad. The Muslim countries and Islamic move ments trusted him because he was a Muslim scholar with a marvelous record of struggle for the glory of Islam. To the Western countries, he was a wise leader with effective mill tary fronts and popular support inside the country.
While Jami’at leadership had its root among the ordinary Afghans and its power base was in the countryside,