Vol 5, No 23	December	1,	1989
UN says Kabul regime violates human rights
Chitral blast claims life of 31 refugees
32 people were killed in a blast in Batular's refugee camp in. Chitral on November 15. The camp was located in Garni Cheshma about 30 miles from Chitral.
Investigation to determine the cause of the explosion is underway. Jami'at believes that the explosion was an act of sabotage planned and executed by a regime agent The fact that all those present at the explosion site were killed makes investigation difficult.
The camp belonged to Jami’at, and the refugees killed were members of that organization. Among those killed were one Pakistani, a number of camp officers, four engineers from the Supervisory Council Reconstruction Committee and a group of horsemen involved in transportation of goods to Afghanistan.
Prof. Rabbani and other high-ranking Jami'at officers visited Chitral to investigate the situation.
The 'local population in Garm Cheshma were extremely cooperative. They helped in burial of the dead.
The explosion took place at 4:00 pm. when all the people living close to the explosion sight had gathered in the mosque to say their prayers.
The Kabul regime tried to blame differences among Mujahideen for the explosion.
Read the obituaries on Page (7 ).
Emergency extended
The Kabul regime's President Najibullah on November 21 extended the state of emergency in the country for six months, because of continued activity by the Mujahideen, a regime official has announced.
The state of emergency was first imposed for three months on February 18, three days after the withdrawal of Soviet troops.
A UN report, issued on November 16, states that the human rights situation in Afghanistan is a matter of
concern.
The report is compiled by UN special reporter Dr. Felix Ermacora, who has been doing this job since 1984.
The most recent report of Dr. Ermacora came after his visit to Iran, Pakistan and Afghnistan. This was the first time he was allowed to visit the refugee camps in Iran.
The report says that the Kabul regime tries its opponents by special military courts. The Kabul regime suspended all human rights last March when it imposed a state of emergency in the country.
According to the UN report, the Kabul regime treats prisoners like animals. A large number of prisoners are kept in small rooms with not enough light, and prisoners are forced to stand for long hours. ICRC has not been allowed to visit prisoners awaiting trial.
The UN reporter says that after the Soviet withdrawal, the number of civilians being injured has increased. The use of SCUD missiles and cluster bombs is one reason for the increase, Dr. Ermacora says.
The UN report says that the num-
American scholar < media coverage
An American writer has criticized the role of Western media in covering Afghanistan situation after the withdrawal of Soviet troops.
Ms. Estuart, who has written a book about the ten-year rule of King Amanullah called 'Fire in Afghanistan’, told her audience in a seminar held at Georgetown University that extensive efforts are made by US media to defame the Mujahideen. She said that an example of this type of activity was the accusation by a paper in New Yoric that CBS had telecasted fake films about Afghan war.
She said that CBS has became a target of such a propaganda because it
ber of refugees returning after the Soviet withdrawal is "insignificant". Fighting has forced more people to flee the war zones.
Dr. Ermacora says that five million refugees living in Iran and Pakistan are not ready to return because of intensive fighting, the presence of land mines and the composition of the Kabul regime.
The UN report says that living conditions for the refugees outside Afghanistan arc worsening because of a decrease in international assistance to the refugees.
The report says that the situation of women and children in refugee camps in Pakistan is depressing. In Iran the situation is better, because most of the refugees live outside the camps.
The report also accuses Mujahideen of ill-treatment of prisoners of war and their political opponents.
The UN report asks all sides in the conflict to observe human rights and release prisoners. It also asks the international community to increase assistance to the refugees.
The report predicts that if a political solution is not reached, the human rights situation will deteriorate further.
criticizes Western i of Afghan war
gave extensive coverage to the Afghan war. She said the real target of these false accusation were the Mujahideen, not CBS.
She accused US media of simple-mindedness because it was publicizing everything the Soviets and Kabul regime gave to them about Afghanistan.
She said that some journalists think everything they see in Kabul was made by the communists.
She said that the Mujahideen do not try to make use of the Western media the way they should, while the other hand the Soviets and the Kabul regime stage shows for photographers and cameramen.