1 IN THE WAKE OF ALMIOHTT ALLAH |
AFGH ANnews
               A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM I'AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN
                   POST OFFICE DDK 264. PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                        VOL. Ill, NO. 19. 1/10/1907.
                             AFGHAN ISSUE AND THE UN GENERAL ASSEMBLY
 The Afghan issue is one of the topics which the General Assembly ▼ill discuss during ^ its current session. The Soriets and its allies have been working hard since the last' session to turn the number of votes to their favor. In the past seven years the general assembly has passed resolutions calling for the withdrawal of foreign troops (Soviets) from Afghanistan by an absolute majority.
 The Soviets started a political offensive in Afghanistan at the beginning of the current year under the name of National Reconciliation (NR). Soviet leaders softened their tone and tried to give the impression that they were willing to withdrew their troops if certain conditions were met.
 The aim of this near policy eras tvo fold. On one hand they vented to broaden the base of the regime and weaken the position of the Resistance . On the other hand they aranted to improve their political image outside and pose themselves as traditional peace lovers.
 As far as inside the country is concerned this policy failed to achieve its aims. It did not unite the different Communist factions, could not lure back 'frustrated refugees' and could not create a broad-based regime loyal to the Soviets. The Soviets understand about the failure of this policy more than anybody else.
 War has continued in Afghanistan. Since they have announced the cease-fire thousands of people have been killed, hundreds of villages have been destroyed and a large number of Afghans have continued to leave their country.
 All the above show that the situation inside the country has not changed and the enemy plans have failed. The Soviets and their puppets are in a much weaker political and military position than in the past.
 The Soviets open and secret lobbying aimed at minimizing the political cost of their invasion, continued during the current year. Several delegations from the puppet regime were sent to Third World countries. Making use of every opportunity Soviet leaders have tried to highlight the achievements of NR. India the founding member (I) of the NA Movement has been active in support of this political compaign and lobbies for the Soviets and their puppets. Mr. Mugabe the current chairman of the NA movement bent under pressure from the Soviets and even established ties with the puppet regime in Kabul. Because of these factors the Soviets expect less votes than previous years in favor of the resolution which ask for the withdrawal of their forces from Afghanistan.
 Afghan Mujahideen as usual will send a delegation to New York to lobby their cause. This time the delegation will be led by Younis Khaiis, the current spokesman of the Alliance. The problem with the Resistance is that it has not paid fhll attention to the problem and has not been active opposing the Soviets and their puppets activities in the Third World countries. On top of this while the illegal puppet regime in Kabul is a member of the UN. the Afghan Resistance is not even given a chance to present its case to the world body.
 During the current session the wbrid body is facing a real test. Taking into account the facts that the Soviet Army is still in Afghanistan, the Soviets have not taken practical steps in implementing previous resolutions passed bym the General Assembly and the