- flFCMOH fEUS VOL.Ill, MO.13, 1/7/ 1007 PflCE 3
                                       TAKHAR PROVINCE
7/6/1987. Mujahideen attacked Baghak post in Taliqan area. 3 enemy soldiers vere killed, tvo rounded and the rest captured along vith 10 guns.
                                            KABUL PROVINCE
According to a report from soroobi district, the Russian and puppet troops attacked Jami'at Islami Mujahideen positions in Jegdalek last veek of May. After some resistance the Mujahideen vithdrev to their second line of defense taking along vith them the important and necessary items. In the fight three tanks vere destroyed and 10 enemy soldiers 'sere killed.                                                «
Mujahideen did not suffer any casualties in the fight, but one Hujahid, Mohammad Amin, vas Martyred later by a mine planted by the invading troops.
                                         REPORT FROM BADGHIS
According to a report from Murghab district of Badghis province. Mujahideen from Jami'at in that district crossed the border recently launching an attack on a Russian military post. More than 40 Russian soldiers vere killed and a large number vere ■rounded. Folloving the attack, more than 50 Russian Jets bombarded the Murghab district for 25 days. About 300 people—including many romen and children—vere Martyred and a lot of houses, shops and other buildings vere destroyed. Commander Nasrullah and his family vere among the Martyrs.
                                           L0GAR PROVINCE
According to a report from Logar, Mujahideen from Jamiat Islami in that province under the command of Dr. Fazlullah "Mujaddidi" launched an attack on Russian and puppet troop's headquarter and posts in Puli-i-Alam, Kutubkhail. Mir AbdaL Kulangar and Baraki Barak in the last roek of May. Mujahideen of Baraki-Barak and Kulangar under the command of Mula Muhayddin also took part in the operations. As a result of the operation 45 enemy troops vere killed, a large number of them rounded. Three Mujahideen rore Martyred and six vere rounded.
According to another report from Logar, 30 Mujahideen belonging to Hexb Islami vho vere going to Ghorband in Par van province vere ambushed by Russian commandos in Deenarkhail of Logar Mujahideen from Jamiat Islami came to the help of their brothers and vere able to break the enemy's siege by firing mortar DScHK and 107mm rocket. The operation lasted four hours.
                                           HERAT PROVINCE
According to a report from Herat, three weeks ago commander Alauddeen vith cooperation of a number of other commanders from Pash tun Zarghun, Kushk, Karukh and Injeel districts in Herat province and another commander from Badghis province designed a plan to launch a coordinated attack on militia forces in Kushk district The fight is still going on. So far Mujahideen have destroyed the militia position in ten villages including Zard Qala vhich is a strategic point. A large number of the enemy troops vere killed (the exact number is not given). Mujahideen captured more than one hundred pieces of light and heavy veapons. One Mujahid has been rounded so far.
14/6/87. Mujahideen under the command of Ismail Khan attacked enemy posts about 3 Km Vest of Herat city and destroyed all of the posts. The reports does not give any details about the operation or the casualties of the tvo sides.
                                                    * * *