AFGHANews Vol 6, No 11, June 1,1990, page ©
News
From The Battlefields
Badakhshan Province
Seventy enemy soldiers were killed and 80 injured when the Mujahideen attacked Shahr-i-Buzurg sub-district, Badakhshan, on May 12.
Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council had wanted to capture the area, which is defended by 1500 soldiers and militiamen, but due to losing the element of surprise* were only able to liberate a village 2nd to destroy some posts.
The Mujahideen slowed down their attack due to shortage of ammunition, but fighting between the Mujahideen and the defenders of the town still continues. The enemy launched ten counterattacks to recapture the area it lost to the Mujahideen, but the attacks were repulsed.
Abdul Qadir Wasiqi is Jami'at commander in Shahr-i-Buzurg and the militiamen defending the area belong to SAZA, a communist faction in coalition with Najib.
Takhar Province
In fighting against an enemy supply convoy which began on April 27, more than ten armored cars and ten trucks have been destroyed and 50 enemy soldiers killed near Khaja Ghar district
The convoy wanted to take supplies to Khaja Ghar. The Kabul regime made Khaja Ghar the provincial capital of Takhar after Taliqan came under Mujahideen control.
A militia commander, Haji Fazle Haq, was among those killed by the Mujahideen. Later the enemy succeeded in taking the supply convoy to Khaja Ghar.
Some months ago the governor of Takhar, along with 40 officers and soldiers, were killed in the same area when they tried to force through a supply convoy . The Mujahideen in these
areas say they cannot maintain sustained pressure on the enemy garrison and its supply routes because of shortages of ammunition.
Baghlan Province
Amir Rasul, an ex-Mujahideen commander who has developed close relations with the Kabul regime, launched an attack against Jami'at in Nahrin district at beginning of May. After losing seven men in 24 hours of fighting the enemy retreated. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
Faryab Province
The Mujahideen destroyed two tanks and six trucks and killed 15 militiamen, including an officer, when they ambushed an enemy column in Juma Bazar area outside Maimana, the provincial capital, on April 15. Two Mujahideen were killed and a few sustained injuries.
•Thirty-two militiamen were killed and ten were injured when the Mujahideen attacked their positions inside the city of Maimana on April 27, the 12th anniversary of the communist coup of 1978.
In the operation, in which different Mujahideen groups participated, only one Mujahid was killed.
Kabul Province
One enemy tank and one truck were destroyed in Deh Sabz district by landmines on May 7. Nine soldiers and two officers of the regime were killed and seven soldiers were wounded.
•Istalif sub-district was liberated by the Mujahideen on May 19. Istalif, about 35 kilometers north of the capital, was a resort town.
The government had a small garrison in the town. The report does not make clear what happened to the sol-
diers in the garrison.
Istalif was famous for its blue pottery and fur coat handicrafts which attracted tourists before the war.
Travellers returning from the, area say that after several years the potteries have restarted their work and the blue potteries were seen for sale in the local shops. Commander Sufi Rasul from Jami'at is the most dominant figure in Istalif and the surrounding areas
Herat Province
On May 8, the Mujahideen liberated the village of Baghjan in Adraskan District and captured 30 guns. Seventy families lived in the mentioned village. Fighting against the enemy posts in the district continues.
• On May 9, three soldiers arid one officer of the regime stationed in Adraskan district surrendered to the Mujahideen, bringing with them 10 Kalashnikov rifles.
•On May 21, a Muslim officer and two soldiers defected with their tank to the Mujahideen in Zindajan district. In retaliation the enemy attacked the residential areas with artillery, which caused no casualties.
•In a joint operation, the Mujahideen from Jami'at have liberated five villages in Pushtoon Zarghoon District. Fifteen enemy soldiers were killed, 30 injured and 13 were captured. The Mujahideen seized 120 guns.
The attack was launched by the Mujahideen belonging to Ismail Khan, Afzali Front, Sufi Abdul Jabar and Ghulam Yahya.
Ningarhar Province
Seven civilians were killed and 15 injured in Roodad District when the regime planes dropped bombs in a vil lage on May 13.
Badghis Province
On April 12, the Mujahideen killed four militiamen, including a commander, and captured eight guns in Dara-i-Sabz area.
•On May 7, the Mujahideen attacked the enemy positions in Dar-i-Sabz of Laman area, killing 18 soldiers and capturing three. A group of militiamen with 100 guns joined the Mujahideen. Two Mujahideen were killed in the operation.
•On May 13, 100 armed militiamen and soldiers joined the Mujahideen.