   AEGMOSS5__YQLJLI_NO. 15 1/8/1986 PAG EZ
 On June 14th, The enemy attacked the Mujahideen bases close to the Afghan-Iran border. Fighting continued for three days. The enemy failed to achieve the aim of destroying Mujahideen bases.
 On June 13th, Commander ismaeii formed a war council and the council decided about coordinated attack- i on the newly-built posts around the city of Herat. It should be mentioned that Mujahideen had cleaned most of the mine fields the enemy had created to stop Mujahideen from entering the city. Because of lack of proper equipment (and lack of experiences) Mujahideen did the job with a high price of 53 wounded and amputated persons.
 When the coordinated attacks started all the 60 posts were captured.* Mujahideen kilted 170 of the militiamen and the puppet soldiers,captured 40 soldiers and officers and destroyed 8 tanks and captured one . They also captured 180 guns and a big amount of ammuniton and other stuff.
 Mujahideen lost 16 people and 60 civilian were killed as the result of aerial and artillary bombardment, A big 'section erf the city came under the control of the Mujahideen.
 On June 19th, The Soviets launched their counter-offensive with the help of 400 AFVs. They also pounded the positions of Mujahideen and the surrounding
 villages with their air forces and long-range rockets.
 The sad story about any offensive is the loss of very valuable commanders and Mujahideen who are martyred . In a separate incident the Jeep of Commander Abdullah, the person who killed the head of militiaman in Herat, hit a land mine. He and some of his companions were killed. The loss of 15 junior Herati Commanders in the last few months is a saddening event for the resistance and the cause of freedom. But to the Jehad of our people this is not new. In 1979, the city of Herat lost 20,000 of its people at the- hand of Communist but continued to resist.Sovieis publicised the death of the commanders and claimed that Herat had fallen in their hands (they never had admitted the control of the Mujahideen on the city). Due to problems of communication. Mujahideen were not able to deny the report. Now we have got a report from Herat that shows ali the claims of the Soviets and their puppet were false. The short visit of the puppet Najib was a propaganda compaign to make the world accept their claims. The report says that on July 19th , Mujahideen engaged the enemy in the West part of the city and destroyed 8 tanks. Mujahideen have control over part of the city. In a separate operation Mujahideen attacked the the puppet post outside the city, killed ten soldiers and captured 20 other . Thirty guns were also captured. The struggle on control of the city will continue between the two sides Soviets with their vast resources and strong fire power will try to drive Mujahideen out but Mujahideen with their commitment and strong faith will continue to resist the invaders.