flFBHflH HEMS VOL. I It, HO. 19, tS/9/1997,PRGE 3
J.I.A.'S MASSAGE TO THE DELEGATES OF THE . AUTUMN CONFERENCE OF THE SWEDISH COMMITTEE FOR AFGHANISTAN
 Heavy fight is still going on in Afghanistan. Russians intensified their war efforts during the summer. They have also intensified, however, their propaganda offensive and political manoeuvres. The aims of their propaganda seem to be:
 1- To provide a cover for their increased atrocities and inhuman brutalities.
 2- To confuse the public opinion and world governments about, their real goals and plans in Afghanistan, i.e., to show as if* they are ready to withdraw their troops from Afghanistan and bring peace to that country.
 3 To present an image of peacefulness of themselves and their puppets and an image of bellicose (war-loving) of the Resistance by proposing "peaceful solutions" which they already know are unacceptable to Mujahideen.
 4- To stop the moral and material support the Mujahideen receive f rom 1 iberty and justice loving people around the world.
 5. To create rift and disunity among Mujahideen.
 Mujahideen have been able to successfully fight back the Russian superpower at the battlefields. We habe limited capabilities, however, to mount a successful struggle at the Political and propaganda levels.
 We need the assistance and cooperation of the supporters of our just cause around the world in order to fight back Russians' propaganda war and political manoeuvres. Thus, we request bur friends at the Swedish committee for Afghanistan and elsewhere :
 1- -Not to be fooled and confused by the Russian propaganda.
      v
 2- To continue their relentless support of our just cause until all the Russian troops leave Afghanistan and the Afghan people get the opportunity to excercise their right of self-determination .
 3- To make the world people know that Mujahideen are against bloodshed. We want peace, but genuine peace with liberty and real i ridependenc.e.
 A- To ask their governments to put political and economic presssure on the Soviet government to stop genocide and atrocities against innocent people and to unconditionally withdraw its.troops from Afghanistan.
 5 Peace in Afghanistan should be a test of Gorbachev’s sincerity about peace and disarmament in Europe. This should be turned into an issue by holding rallies, meetings and demons-
 trati ons.
 At the end, once again we express our appreciation for your continuous support of our just cause. May God bless you.