AFGHANews Vol7,
No 20, October 15,1991, page @
1
V________________________________
Herat Province
•	A regime truck was destroyed by a land mine near Pul-i-Bazarak of Zindajan on September 16. An un-mown number of soldiers were either killed or wounded in the incident.
•	The Mujahideen destroyed an enemy tank, killed two soldiers and injured two others on September 17 in Qala-i-Naw of Zindajan.
•	The Mujahideen killed one enemy soldier and wounded five, on September 18 in Qala-i-Raig and Qala-i-Ezat of Zindajan. They used recoilless rifles and RPG rocket launchers in the attack. Two Mujahideen were also injured in the operation.
•	An enemy tank was destroyed by a land mine in Qala-i-Gada Ha on
these militiamen are stationed in Badakhshan to protect Faizabad against the Mujahideen attacks.
According to a Mujahideen source, friction between local militiamen and those brought from outside has led to incidents of shootouts causing many casualties.
Baghlan Province
The Mujahideen repulsed an attack by regime forces in llasantal and old city of Baghlan on September 7 killing 11 militiamen and wounding 20 others.
According to a report by Abdul Hai Haqjo, 200 cattle have been killed in recent bombings in Nahrin and Hasan tal by the Kabul regime.
September 19. The crew of the tank were killed. On the same day, the Mujahideen attacked the enemy positions within the city of Herat with heavy weapons killing one enemy officer and injuring two soldiers.
•	The Mujahideen killed a militiaman in Quruq area of Zindajan on September 20. On the same day, an enemy truck was destroyed and three enemy soldiers were wounded in Qala-i-Raig.
•	One enemy soldier was killed and one was wounded in Pul-i-Bazarak of Zindajan by land mine on September 21. On die same day, the Mujahideen killed four enemy soldiers and wounded two in Qala-i-Naw of Zindajan using RPG rocket launchers.
Aerial and artillery bombardment of Zindajan continued when this report
Jawzjan Province
•	The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed two enemy soldiers and captured four on September 28 in Aqcha District They seized four light weapons and one R-10S Radio set Two Mujahideen woe also killed in the operation. Commander Ahmad Pahlawan reported.
•	The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed 16 militiamen and captured 23 in Laghmani village of Sar-i-Pul District on October 10 and 11, Qazi Yasin reported. The Mujahideen seized 38 guns and one truck. Two Mujahideen were killed and eight were injured.
i Gardez siege n»
[	1	From	page	(1) 1 J
. to avoid fighting in Gardez.	,
was filed.
Badakhshan Province
A group of militiamen have joined the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Faizabad after killing their officer. Fifteen militiamen, belonging to Gelamjam faction, defected to Commander Basir Khalid brining 20 Kalashnikov rifles and two rocket launchers. About 500 of
I The fall of Gardez will deal a j . psychologic blow to Najib and usher further gains for the resistance. The Mujahideen's failure to capture J Gardez will boost the morale of the * | Kabul regime. The Mujahideen be- 1
*	lieve that Gardez will fall, but they *
*	are not satisfied with present pace *
*	of their advance which slowed *
*	down by the enemy air force. *
Early snow blocks road to the North
The first snow of the year has damaged crop in upper parts of Eastern Nooristan. The snow also blocked the road from Pakistan to Badakhshan for several days. Two people were killed in the snowstorm on Toop Khana pass. The early snow disrupted construction work on the road which is being built by the Mujahideen from the bender to Badakhshan.
Prof. Rabbani visits Zebak
The leader of Jami'at Islami Prof. Rabbani has visited the border area of Badakhshan to see the construction of the road and mine-clearing operation in the area. He went to Dozakh Data, about 30 kilometers inside Afghanistan and talked to the worker and on engineers building die road. He told the workers that their involvement in reconstruction of Afghanistan is also a kind of Jehad, as important as the forcing of Soviets out the country.
He visited Sanglech, a village of Zebak sub-district about 15 kilometers' east of Toop Khana. Talking to the villagers, he advised them to cooperate with the Mujahideen in their reconstruction programs. Prof. Rabbani promised to send some food to be distributed among the people of the village.
Soviets dump Najibullah
| From page (1)
the UN has said it would not involve itself in a process which is difficult to organize.
The organization of Islamic Conference adopted a resolution in New York which asks for a political solution of Afghan issue through formation of a broad-based government and holding elections. The resolution was prepared by Pakistan in consultation with the USSR. The General Assembly will adopt the resolution without a debate.
The Mujahideen leaders are discussing the composition and agenda of a delegation which is supposed to go to Moscow soon. Soviets have invited all the Mujahideen leaders to visit Moscow.