Book Review
UNTYING THE AFGHAN KNOT:	NEGOTIATING SOVIET
WITHDRAWAL, Riaz M. Khan; An Institute for the Study of Diplomacy book. Durham and London: Duke University Press, 1991.
AFGHANISTAN'S GORDIAN KNOT:	An ANALYSIS OF
NATIONAL CONFLICT AND STRATEGIES FOR PEACE, Hafizullah Emadi; Occasional Paper 3 of the International Relations Program. Honolulu: East-West Center of the University of Hawaii, 1991. 36 pp. tables, maps.
"I have rubbed down my fingernails pulling at this knot," lamented the Urdu poet Ghalib, referring to the pain caused by his beloved. Both of these authors have tugged at the knot of Afghanistan, one in a short essay (which was preceded by a book) and one in 9 years of negotiations for the Pakistan Foreign Ministry and the. present lengthy book.
Riaz Mohammad Khan, formerly the Director General for Afghanistan Affairs of the Foreign Ministry of Pakistan, was the only diplomat on any team who participated in the entire process of negotiating the Geneva Accords on Afghanistan from the first hints in 1981 to their signing on April 14, 1988. This book consists of an extremely detailed account of those negotiations from the point of view of the Pakistan Foreign Ministry, together with an attempt to situate the diplomats in a local, regional and world context.
The result is a book that is more designed for consultation than reading, except for the sort of Afghaniacs who actually read book reviews in the Afghanistan Forum. The book is actually a detailed memoir; it offers interesting insights into the thinking of the government of Pakistan and in particular into intra-govemmcotal battles. As far as I know, this book contains the first confirmation from an official source of the divergence of views between the Foreign Office of Pakistan and the ISI. Riaz M. Khan offers an in-tcresung - and, in view of his continuing government service as Ambassador to Kazakhstan, rather daring - account of the development of this conflict. He is also quite interesting on the political infighting that developed between General Zia and the June jo Government over the signing of the accords and other matters in 1988. In fact, his revelations clarify a whole list-of puzzles of interest mainly to those who followed these negotiations closely.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 23, December 1, 1992, page ©
He is less satisfying on the bigger issues - we arc not privy to the direct US-Soviet negotiations, to the domestic changes in the USSR (except as summarized from newspaper reports), nor, on the other hand, to the construction of grass-roots resistance organizations inside Afghanistan. Riaz Khan refers to both these aspects of the developments and takes the balanced view that military pressure and diplomatic negotiations played complementary roles in giving the Soviets both the motive and ihc opportunity to withdraw their troops from Afghanistan
Ihe events that have transpired since the beginning of this year, with the collapse of Najibullah and the failure of the UN's efforts to promote a negotiated internal settlement, pose a bigger question, however. Maybe the Soviet Union got out of Afghanistan because it was in the throes of a domestic transformation vaster than anyone imagined at the lime, in which the loss of some helicopters in Paktia or the development of clever bits of wording by Mr. Cordovez played equally marginal roles. By 1988, the Soviets had no more interest in being in Afghanistan; by the end of 1991, they had no more interest in being Soviet, and the orphaned Kabul regime fell apart 100 days later. It is not a pleasant thought, for those of us who hope for reasoned solutions to knotty problems, to consider whether uncontrollable and often violent social conflicts develop independently of any actor's wishes. But reality forces these questions on us.
Hafizullah Emadi focuses on the relations of domestic and international forces in Afghanistan and the obstacles to what he saw as a reasonable solution in late 1991, when the USSR still existed. The pamphlet is largely a highly condensed version of his previous book (State, Revolution and Superpowers in Afghanistan (New York: Pracger, 1990)) with a short section at the end On reconstruction, summarized from works by others. What is interesting about the pamphlet is the author’s unusual viewpoint. He gives an inordinate amount of attention to the "Maoist*' (or. as he calls them, "Revolutionary,") groups, which he claims "have no regular military bases [but] arc active throughout the country." (p. 12.) The author also claims that "possibly as many as 24 percent" of Afghans arc Shi'a (p. 2), which is consistent with claims made by the Iranian-based parties but not with the table he reprints from Canflicld on (p. 32). which shows about 15 percent of the population to be
Shi'a. There are other gaffes: no doubt Sheikh Sayyaf (as the Riyadh taxi drivers call him) would be surprised to find himself on a list of "moderates" with Mujaddidi and Gailani on (p.13). (In fairness, such errors arc sometimes due to editors or printers, but even so the author should have been a more attentive proof reader.)
Nonetheless, the pamphlet is interesting for presenting some detailed information on the leftist and Shi'a groups which is usually lacking in Western accounts. The Shi'a parties, in particular, have shown themselves to be more powerful ihan most analysts seem tp have realized; we need to learn more about them.
What these books have in common with much analysis of Afghanistan is an underestimation of the depth of the crisis. The knot that may come undone is not, alas, the conflict ui Afghanistan, but Afghanistan itself, despite all the . worn fingernails of the people of Afghanistan, diplomats, and well-intentioned analysts (I humbly include myself in the latter group), peace has not come to Afghanistan - knot yet, and perhaps knot ever.
Barnett R. Rubin Columbia University Courtesy: Afghanistan Forum
Ghazni people \ live in peace j
Ghazni Province is run j by a 38-member Council J headed by Qari Taj j Mohammad, better known J as "Qari Baba.” a com- J mander of Harakat Inqilab j Islami. The Council, which J has IS Shia members, holds i weekly meetings.
Aimed Mujahideen arc not al-j lowed to enter the city. But the head t of the council is allowed to have | five armed bodyguards and mem- J bers of the council three bodyguards J | each.	'
* Security in the city is satisfacio- j f ry; schools arc open, and govern- j | ment officials attend their duties. As f I a result, government property - par- {
] licularly weapons belonging to units I J of the armed forces - have not been \
1	taken either by parties or |
| individuals	t
; Two people were sentence to \ f death by a court in Kandahar after |
2	they were found guilty of killing f
t four people, They were publicly J {hanged.	|