AF&HAKe^s Voll No 15, August 1,1988, Page6
Party document reveals invasion mistake
' The introduction of troops into Afghanistan reflected m excessive j tendency to use military force iu Soviet foreign policy."
The above was stated in a commentary in the Soviet government newspaper ‘ Investin' by a prominent political writer, Alexander Bovin. The statement was also published in the New York Times with news about a secret circular issued by the Soviet Communist Party admitting a series of errors and misjudgement leading to the Soviet military move into Afghanistan.
The paper writes: "The circular which was read aloud to party members strongly implies but does not state explicitly that the original
decision to send Soviet troops was wrong."
“The document supports the critics who say the Soviet leadership erred fundamentally in believing that a tribal. Islamic country like Afghanistan was ready to make the transition to Socialism.'1 Some noted personalities believe that reading such documents at the party level implies a shift in the party line which is important as a signal xo Soviet journalists and political analysts to begin a deeper and more critical examination of the war.
Soviet scholars in meeting with Western visitors have recently begun freely describing the Afghan invasion as a mistake carried out by a narrow circle in the
pol if bureau headed by Leonid Brezhnev. On July 18, 1988 Kim Zagolov a Soviet military analyst in an interview with the Soviet weekly Ogonyok said:" The ruling Afghan Communist party is too weak to bring economic and political stability in the country and factional fighting inside the party is likely to lead to a new civil war next year when the Soviets are out of Afghanistan.”
The main point of the document implies that the Soviet leaders in 1979 had made their decision without fully understanding Afghanistan.
Public portrayal of the war as a mistake remains a sensitive subject because Soviet officials are worried about offending the feelings of veterans and families of those who were killed in the war by abruptly declaring that they died in a misguided war.
Good lesson from bitter
experience
AN Italian journalist, who was captured by the regime forces in November 1987 and released after seven months of imprisonment in Puli Ch ark hi prison of Kabul, has recently published an account of his captivity in the July issue of an American magazine, insight,
Fausto BHislavo was taken prisoner by DKA forces in haghman province while he was on his way back to Pakistan from the North of Afghanistan where he travelled to cover the war as a photojournalist.
He has described in detail the story of his captivity in eight pages of the magazine in which he goes as far as revealing the deeds and behaviour of the Communist regime and the Soviets. He ment ions the way he was
beaten and hew he was forced to give an interview with a Soviet television team which was specially invited to film all his trial proceedings. Furthermore, he writes about the cond it ions of the prisons of the Communist regime. According to him. while filing his trial process in front of the Soviet camera, the judges finally sentenced him to seven years imprisonment on charges of being a “spy, advisor, sabuteur, terrorist and smuggler" contrary to the fact of his career being a journalist. Observing this, Fausto adds;" 1 thought the word journalist did not exist in the Afghan vocabulary.' This phrase, however, needs a little correction because the word journalist' &oes exist sn Afghan vocabulary but not in that of the Communist regime
and the Soviets.
From the overall story of Fausto it seems that he has acquired a better knowledge and access to facts and other aspects that he would not have otherwise been aware of. Now he can evidently state from his personal observation the ongoing events of Afghanistan with particular relation to the human rights in Communist prisons.
His story deriving from a bitter experience might convince some western journalists and especially human rights observers that the situation in Afghanistan is worse than they would think. Thousands of innocents are tortured In Communist slaughter houses and prisons under the eyes and advice of Russian advisors.