AFGHANews Vol 5, No23, December 1,1989, page©
Mujahideen repair road in the valley of Worsaj
Worsaj, Takhar- The truck, loaded with melons and some'twenty-five people seated atop them, is moving faster than ever before through the Worsaj gorge between Farkhar and Worsaj.
The driver of the truck earns his money by transporting melons from the city of Taloqan to Worsaj and moving ill people to the "Yogh" hospital, located half way along the road. He is happy, and thanks Jami'at for the improvement of the road.
The unpaved road between Worsaj and Farkhar is about 70 kilometers long, and is located in the northern province of Takhar. The road eventual-. ly joins the main highway to the city of Taloqan,
The Farkhar valley's road was in very bad shape until recently. Jami'at decided to improve it. "This road was built during Zahir Shah's time, some. 30 years ago, when he used to pay annual visits to the area for deer hunting in Pew and fishing in the Farkhar river," says Sayed Abdullah, the director of road construction -in the area, appointed by the Supervisory Council Reconstruction Committee.
He adds, "More than 18 vehicles overturned on the road during Zahir
Shah's time, particularly when passing through the rocky, dangerous gorge, leaving many, dead behind." Now, he says, "drivers pass with big smiles on their faces, and occasionally bring a few melons for the workers on the road."
The ordinary speed on the road, prior to its improvement, was 10 kilometers per hour. Now, vehicles do not overturn anymore, and they can drive up to SO kilometer per hour passing through the gorge.
In January of this year, the Reconstruction Committee decided upon the improvement of the Worsaj-Farkhar road, which will be completed in a few months. Once completed, one can enjoy many benefits from it, such as less time getting from area to the other, less gasoline spent, and cars' longer lives.
Improvement of already existing roads and opening of new roads has been one of Jami'at's major reconstruction efforts, carried out with the plans of the Council's Reconstruction Committee. Hundreds of kilometers of roads have been built and more will be completed before snow covers the area this coming winter.
Reconstruction of Afghanistan faces shortage of funds
The UN coordinator of humanitarian assistance for Afghans has complained of insufficient funds to help the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
Prince Sadruddin Agh Khan told reporters in New York that the UN relief workers have the best access in Afghanistan but they had lacked funds to do their job.
Due to the war situation in the country, five million refugees are reluctant to go back to Afghanistan.
It seems that the Prince believes that enough material assistance in the country, will encourage the return of the refugees and pave the way for a political settlement
Prince Sadruddin sent a convoy of food to the government-controlled areas without informing the resistance. This incident has annoyed the Mujahideen and they have even accused his actions of being "biased toward the regime".
Prince Sadruddin also started a much-publicized de-mining program, but no practical step has been taken yet to clear the mine fields.
Cordovez honored
Pakistan's Ambassador to the United Nations has given a high Pakistani civilian award to Mr. Diego Cordovez, a former UN Under-Secretary-General.
The award of Hilal-i-Pakistan was conferred by the President of Pakistan last year on Mr. Cordovez who hammered out the Geneva accords on Afghanistan after a six-year effort
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
A good year is determined by its spring.
Meaning: As goes the spring, so goes the year.
Usage: Character and quality show up early.
*
s-» O'

Whatever you sow you reap.
Meaning: A person gets his just deserts.
*
jjk
it> l/j	JU
There is path to the top of even the highest mountains.
Meaning: (a) God is more
powerful than the proudest of persons.
(b) Where there is will there is a way.
::§!§ upon hiififisaid.