AFGHANews Vol6, No 22, November 15,1990, page 0
Oct. anniversary features unrest
Anti-Communist groups staged demonstrations in Moscow and in some other Russian cities to protest against the seven-decade long oppressive rule of ^communists on the occasion of 73rd anniversary of the October Revolution.
In Moscow more than ten thousand people staged a demonstration against excesses of Moscow rule. The demonstration was held away from the Red Square, where the yearly official ceremony was held. A man fired at Gorbachev with a shot gun from a distance but he was not hurt. The man was later arrested by police and described by the authorities as 'mentally sick', a term used in the Soviet Union to describe political opponents.
In the Lithuanian capital Vilnius, demonstrators who tried to disrupt the military parade marking the October devolution anniversary clashed with the police.
Making use of the occasion, Najibullah	sent a	message	to
Gorbachev asking him to continue his support for the Kabul government which is	fighting	against	the
Mujahideen.
Masood's visit worries Kabul
Soviet and regime media have been critical of Masood's visit to Pakistan.
Radio Moscow, in a commentary, called the agreement between Hezb and Jami’at ’strange’ because of the past tension between the two parties.
The radio said that both parties believed in solving Afghan problem through military means and they differed only on tactical issues. It further said the victory of UI in Pakistan elec tion had given the Mujahideen fresh hope.
The radio said that the tactical alliance between Hezb and Jami'at will have strategic implications. The head of the Kabul regime, Najibullah, believes that escalation of war would result in destabilization of Soviet Union, the commentary added.
Radio Kabul described Masood's trip to Pakistan as interference of Pakistan in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. A regime officer said the trip will discredit Masood, who enjoyed popular support until now.
Regime radio described the new strategy of the commanders as impractical.
News from Battlefields
From
15 men. The Mujahideen captured the following weapons:
•Kalashnikov rifle	150
•Recoilless rifle (75 mm) 1 •ZPU machine-gun (14.6mm) 2 •DShK machine-gun ( 12.6)	2
•Trucks	3
Five Mujahideen were killed and eight were injured. One enemy tank was also destroyd by a landmine.
Kabul Province
The Mujahideen destroyed two tanks and one truck and killed an unknown number of enemy soldiers when the communists tried to capture Danishmand Village on November 3. Fighting still continued when this report was sent. The enemy made use of leavy artillery against the defendants of the mentioned village.
Logar Province
Fighting between the Mujahideen and Kabul regime continues in Logar Province, south of Kabul.
The Kabul regime launched an attack against the Mujahideen at the beginning of October. It succeeded in reestablishing itself in Mohammad Agha District.
Fighting for control of Waghjan gorge, between Mohammad Agha and Pul-e-Alam, the provincial capital of Logar, has continued.
The Kabul regime launched an offensive against Logar to pre-empt the much publicized attack of Hezb Islami on Kabul. Logar has a strategic location. It is close to Kabul and situated on the way to Paktia.
The Mujahideen transportation
page (2)
lines pass through the area. The resistance is very active in the province. The Kabul regime use maximum force to keep Kabul-Gardiz road open and disrupt Mujahideen communication lines.
Dr. Hanan, a senior Jami'at commander in Logar has send the account of some of the recent engagements as follows:
On October 31, the Kabul regime fired about 90 BM-27 heavy rockets at the Mujahideen positions around Pul-i-Alam but caused no casualties.
On November 3, enemy attacks on Surkhab and Zarghoon Shar fronts were repulsed. Most of the residence of Zarghoon Shar have migrated to Peshawar to avoid war.
On November 4, the enemy attacked Waghjan gorge. One Mujahid was killed. The enemy lost one jeep.
On November 3, a BM-27 rocket shell killed one Mujahid
On November 9, one soldier defected to the Mujahideen and one tank was destroyed.
On November 13, some of the regime forces left for Kabul. Firing of heavy weapons, especially BM-27, continue. Regime air force heavily bombed Surkhab District.
On November 11, the enemy fired more than 150 BM-27 shells on Surkhab but caused no casualties.
On November 13, Jami'at and Jabha Mujahideen attacked two enemy posts in Mughul Khail, capturing five weapons and some ammunition.
On November 11, the Mujahideen destroyed six posts in Pul-i-Alam and Mohammad Agha and captured one mortar, one DShK, five Kalashnikov rifles and one P-K machine-gun. Two Mujahideen were killed.
Mujahideen reject communists
From page (4)
government of Afghanistan and indirectly label those who have opposed the Soviet occupation as bandits and saboteurs.
The performance of UN in the post-withdrawal period has clearly favored the Kabul regime. Programs run by Operation Salaam are benefitting the Kabul regime financially and politically. UN officials persuade volunteer organizations supporting the resistance to open their offices in Kabul. The objections of the Mujahideen to the behavior of UN agencies have not been taken seriously. With this history how can one be sure that the UN will not take side
swith the Kabul regime on the sensitive issue of elections?
We believe that regime is rotten from within and that there are no natural elements which can insure its survival. If the resistance put its house in order and make use of its available resources in a wise way, the Kabul regime would fall quickly.
Why should we let a political process hide the crimes which the Soviets and their lackeys committed in Afghanistan, and make Soviet interference permanent by giving legal status to the Kabul regime?