[ IN THE NAME Or ALMIGHTY ALLAH
                         IS THE SOVIETS’ OFFER A KEY TO THE SOLUTION?
 The new time-table offered by the Soviets is considered as a sign of real progress in the direction of finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan by some people. The Soviets have said they will complete the withdrawal of their troops within ten months if Pakistan and the regime in Kabul sign the four instrument agreement in Geneva. The pulling out of the troops will start 60 days after the agreement is signed.
 To those who do not have enough insight into the complicated situation in Afghanistan the announcement seems a breakthrough but to the Afghan Resistance the case is different.
 The main pm pose of our struggle is. to restore independence, non-alignmcnt and Islamic status to Afghanistan. That is achieved when the Soviet forces leave Afghanistan and the people are given the right to choose the type of government they want. These are the two key issues and a prerequisite for restoration of peace in the country.                                   '
 The new Soviet offer is designed to increase the speed in the present Geneva process and the main purpose of it is the sighing of the agreement by the puppet regime. The mere signing of the Geneva agreement by the regime will give this regime international recognition and the colour of legitimacy. This would be a great political achievement for the Soviets.
 The present Geneva format will not allow the Mujahideen to play any role and without their participation no stable government will come into existence. The war will continue, the country will remain divided and the refugees will not find the conditions safe enough to return home.
 If the communist regime remains , in a controlling position, the way that the Soviets have envisaged, the refugees will not feel safe to return and the Mujahideen will not stop fighting. Therefore it seems that the Soviets are not interested in peace in Afghanistan but in imposing their isolated puppet regime through an international agreement.
 The Soviets hope that by getting the recognition of the puppet regime through Geneva and having 10 months to operate against the Mujahideen who will not be given any military or financial assistance, the regime will be able to survive.
 The Soviets may also leave thousands of their personnel under the name of advisors to help the regime. The Soviets think that massive military supplies to the regime by them and substantial economic aid channelled through the regime by the UN under the name Df a rehabilitation programme will put the regime in a good military