AFGHANews Vol 5, No 9, May 1, 1989, page 0
April coup of 1978
The April communist coup of 1978 caught the people of Afghanistan by surprise. In 1973 Daud had also made coup but that was considered an internal power-struggle within the royal family. But the coup of 1973 proved to be the first step towards communist rule in Afghanistan.
The communist coup of April 27, 1978, was carried out by the army officers who had seen training in the Soviet Union and were members of the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan.
The Soviets were relieved to see that Daud, who wanted to decrease dependence on the Soviets by establishing good relations with other countries, was eliminated in a bloody coup.
Both the coups of 1973 and 78 were left-oriented and anti-religious, but the later one was highly radical in its opposition to religion and the traditions of Afghan society.
The Communists could see no danger from any quarters against their provocative measures. They had brought Daud's army under their control and were confident of military, political and economic support from the Soviet Union, a neighboring super power.
The victory of the communists over the army units loyal to Daud had made them very bold and less careful.
The Communists did not see a major social, religious and political organization to mobilize people against them.
Religious institutions and personalities who could play a key role in such circumstances were not organized. King Zahir and President Daud who saw the power of religious leaders as a potential threat to themselves did everything to weaken it.
Allowing communists to attack religion and make a mockery of religious figures was part of this campaign. This type of attitude towards Islam and Ulama was common among their elite class in the government, but the communists were well organized.
The oppressive rule of the communists in the first few months made the peaceful people of the country realize: that they did not have any choice except to defend themselves against the onslaught of the left dictatorship. Religion provided the people with inspiration to resist and religious figures came to their help to give a direction to their resistance.
There was a new element in this struggle and that was the presence of a group of highly motivated Islamists who triggered the national uprising explosion against the communists.
There is a misconception about the reasons of the uprising against the communists which needs correction. The opposition to the communists is generally attributed to the introduction of social, educational and economic reforms by the communists.
The people did not rise against the communist because they opened new schools, hospital and factories and built fridges and roads.
They had not done any of the above tilings. What made the people angry was the killing of the innocent people, attacks on religious values and interference in private life of the people.
The people had realized that if they did not move they would find themselves slaves of the regime: They had heard about the atrocities of communists in Central Asia.
In a short period of time insurgence broke out in different parts of the coun-
Tum to page ( 7 )
BBC helps Afghans to clear mines
The BBC Pushtoo program has launched a mine-awareness program for Afghans in collaboration with the United Nations.
The program will be broadcasted for six months to increase Afghans' knowledge about the danger of mines.
The Soviet Union has planted millions of landmines in Afghanistan which pose a serious threat to the people and animals.
It is not clear why the program is broadcasted in only one of the two major languages in Afghanistan.
All Afghans do not understand Pushtoo and they must be informed in their own languages.
The mine-awareness program being a humanitarian project must benefit all, not just a section of the Afghan society.
Such a program should not be limited to the refugees in Pakistan. The people inside Afghanistan and the refugees in Iran are entitled to benefit from the program.
Food not arms
From page (3)
Afs/7 kilograms, diesel oil 800 Afs/ per gallon.
Abdullah said that the Panjshir was bombed day and night, but bombing was sporadic and indiscriminate.
Despite bombing, the people in Panjshir had cultivated the land. The only exceptions were Rukha and Bazarak. In these two towns, due to the destruction of the irrigation channels only part of the farmlands were cultivated.
Abdullah described the weather in Salang as being very cold with two meters deep snow on passes. This was the reason the Mujahideen could not carry away the ammunition they had captured from the enemy.
The aid to the victims of Salang was sent by a number of relief organizations based in Peshawar who have been involved in helping war affected Afghans inside the country.
Abdullah described the morale of the Mujahideen in Salang as "very high". He predicted a major military encounter between the Mujahideen and the communist forces in and around Salang in the near future.