AFGHANews Vol7, No 8, April 15,1991, page ©
Khost is liberated
From page (1)
the fall of Khost But the Mujahideen’s disciplined behavior, during and after the liberation of Khost, deprived the Kabul regime of a destructive propaganda weapon against the resistance.
The fighting forced some residents of Khost and adjoining districts to migrate to Pakistan. More than 1200 families crossed the border into Pakistan. They are mainly the families of militias who supported the Kabul regime.
The liberation of Khost was Celebrated by the Mujahideen and refugees.
It provided hope for well-wishers of the Afghan resistance. All the Mujahideen leaders, including Prof. Rabbani, congratulated the Mujahideen for the major victory during the holy month of Ramadhan.
The defeat dealt a heavy blow to the Kabul regime. Najib, dismayed by the performance of his troops, could not admit the defeat explicitly, saying only that he had lost radio links with the city. As predicted, he blamed foreign intervention, and announced a day of mourning. This is the first time in the history of the PDPA that a mourning day has been announced and it shows the degree the regime has suffered from the fall of Khost
Radio Moscow announced the fall of Khost more explicitly. Moscow and Kabul accused Pakistan of breaking the Geneva Accords by providing assistance to the Afghan Mujahideen. The Kabul foreign minister sent two letters to the UN Secretary General, asking him to stop Pakistan's interference. The UN Secretary General expressed concern over the escalation of hostilities. Hfc representative, Benon Sevan, met with Najib in Kabul, and said the situation in Khost emphasized the need for a political solution.
Pakistan has rejected the charges of direct involvement in the fighting, and asked the UN to stop the Kabul regime from bombing Khost after its liberation because it caused casualties among the civilians.
Radio Kabul reported that Najib had asked the Iranian and Turkish presidents to stop Pakistan from interference in the affairs of Afghanistan. Similar letters were also sent to other heads of states.
The liberation of Khost has military, as well as political, benefits for the Mujahideen. Capturing an enormous amount of arms and ammunition, at a time when outside assistance is decreasing, will increase the Mujahideen's strength. The morale of
regime troops and supporters will fall. The Mujahideen have regained their self-confidence. It will bring about positive competition among the Mujahideen for further military achievements against the regime, which will result in increased fighting all over Afghanistan.
The Mujahideen's victory in Khost has increased world media's interest in Jehad, which was pushed into the background by the lack of military activities and the dramatic events in the Gulf and other parts of the world.
The war in Khost revealed the involvement of hundreds of Pakistani tribesmen in support of the Kabul regime in Khost. According to Pakistani journalist Rahimullah Yusufzai, the Malik Khel, a Shia Pushtun tribe in Kurram Agency, have long had close ties with Kabul. They have provided the regime with mercenaries and smuggled food from Pakistan to the besieged garrison at Khost and its surrounding areas. Other tribes along the border have been also supported the regime in return for money and arms. Jamiat-i-Ulama-i-Islam (Fazul Rahman group) has been trying to prevent the tribal people from helping die communists.
After the fall of Khost, the regime began bombing the town. It also fired long-range rockets into the town, causing some casualties.
Some Mujahideen of Khost are unhappy about the way Hezb Island Hikmatyar exploited the victory for their own benefit Hezb exaggerated the role of its fighters in the fighting, and there are also complaints that they seized more than their fair share of captured equipment
The Kabul regime blamed the so-called fundamentalist parties for the fall of Khost and tried to appease the so-called moderate parties (with one of which it claimed to have held talks in Geneva). But at Khost, Mujahideen from all parties took pari, destroying regime hopes regarding its reconciliation efforts.
The Mujahideen victory has been welcomed by their foreign supporters, including United States. The Awami National Party of Pakistan, led by Begum Naseem Wali Khan, and its students' wing were the only mourners in the Pakistani side of the border. They criticized what they called interference by the Pakistan government in Afghan internal matters. The ANP has close ties with the Kabul regime and Moscow, and never questioned the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan by the Red Army.
iPliBl
on March 27 in a check for $25,000 to the UN
□ted over half a million doUais to the UN emergency fund for Afghanistan.	WM
L Three Swiss ICRG woAits held
, a «ezb istami under in Kandahar were freed after 75 days in captivity on March 29.
An ICRC statement said they
___A	 ^	„_____________
■The government <rf Japan will provide one million dollars worth of iaid to victims of the earthquake and floods in Afghanistan through the World Food Program. The fund will | used for procurement of whead



,y • ,	'	* • ^	^	^	* <
| The UN High Commissioner for [Refugees (UNHCR) has decided to suspend aid to the two Afghan refugee camps of Pishin and Gulistan in
organization were robbed of their!
armed men on April 3.
Ill
% ,,ThejSatu£ gpvermpittfets [tended an invitation to the President [of the Afghan Interim Government, Professor Sibghatolhb Mnjaddidt, tm [visit that country.	■
The US ambassador, Robert Oakley, and Peter Tomsen, the US special envoy to the Afghan rests-;ta®c:e, called on Prof. Mujaddi<fe::*i Peshawar recently to thank him for sending a group of MtpMdoen td take part In the war against Iraq. I Prof. Mujaddidi’s decision to sent Mujahideen to Saadi Arabia has improved his relations with Saudi] Arabia and the United States. ' _ •••
The female newscasters of Kabul TV have started to cover their heads. | This might be a temporary step to] show respect for the holy month of
Ramadhan. Women working in the ;
I Kabul regime’s institutions wear Iweslem ciothes. They normally do not cover their head&ff	• l|jj
1