Vol 5, No 8
April 15,1989
Jami'at treats POWs
Prof.Rabbani
The Jami'at leader has assured Amnesty International of fair treatment of the prisoners of war by the Mujahideen.
In reply to the letters of several Amnesty groups, Professor Rabbani has said that the Mujahideen do not hold any political prisoners. Those who are captured in war would be treated on the basis of their past actions. If they had willingly committed crimes against innocent people, they would be put on trial and dealt with justly, Prof. Rabbani said.
Prof. Rabbani has assured the Amnesty groups that he will remind Jami'at field commanders of their responsibility in dealing with POWs.
"Our religion, Islam, prohibits tor-
ture and summary execution," Prof. Rabbani said in his letter.
He has drawn the attention of Amnesty International towards reports that several months before completion of troop withdrawal, the Russians removed many political prisoners from Kabul jails. It is feared that they were taken to Russia. If so, cross-border movement of the political prisoners constitutes a great crime.
Prof. Rabbani asks Amnesty to take the necessary measures to find out the whereabouts of those prisoners and to do everything for their immediate release.
Recently Amnesty International groups in Europe have sent many letters to Prof. Rabbani showing concern about the safety of the prisoners held by both sides of the Afghan conflict.
Muj ahideen opposed to random firing on cities
Regime fires Scud missile into Pakistan
The communist regime in Kabul fired aN Scud missile into the border town of Torkham in Pakistan on April 7.
The missile hit a post office and caused a lot of damages. No casualties were reported.
The government of Pakistan has strongly protested about the firing of the missile. The Kabul regime has said that the missile hit Pakistani territory accidentally.
This is the first time that the communist regime has fired a Scud missile into Pakistan.
The incident took place when the Kabul regime and the Soviets were accusing Pakistan of violating the Geneva accords by helping the Mujahideen in fighting around Jalalabad! They have asked for establishment of permanent UN posts along the Pak-Afghan border.
Firing the Scud missile is an obvious violation of the Geneva accords by the communist regime in Kabul.
Najib urged , to resign
The British Foreign Secretary Sir Geoffrey Howe has said that the vast majority of world opinion wants an end to the Soviet-backed Kabul government, according to Reuters.
Talking to newsmen at the end of his trip to India, Sir Geoffrey urged Najibullah, the head of the Soviet-backed regime in Kabul, to step down in favor of a broad-based government in Afghanistan.
About a further UN role in Afghan conflict. Sir Geoffrey said it was important that the UN did not give an opportunity to the Kabul regime to regain ground lost to the Mujahideen.
The Mujahideen are opposed to random firing on cities which endangers civilians, a Mujahideen commander said in a recent interview with AMRC.
Commander Mohammad Anwar of Jami'at Islami southeast of Kabul said that the Mujahideen council had decided to avoid sporadic firing on the city so civilians will not be harmed.
Anwar, who recently arrived in Peshawar, said,n In our operations on the Kabul regime positions, we take into consideration the residents of Kabul".
Commander Anwar said he believed that firing on Kabul city has been carried out by troops on the Kabul perimeter in the Qargha and Khyikhana areas.
The Mujahideen commandos council in eastern Kabul decided last December not to attack Kabul with missiles, which could jeopardize the safety of residents, the commander said.
According to the decision of the shoora, the Mujahideen will allow nobody to attack Kabul with rockets but they can selectively and carefully hit regime military installations, said the commando.
Another commander, Aiiwari of Harakat-i-Islami, a member of the Mujahideen council in western Kabul, said he opposed random attacks on the city.
Ceasefire rejected
The Kabul regime's proposal for a ceasefire during the holy month of Ramazan was ignored by the Mujahideen.
The Kabul regime makes use of verious occasions to ask for ceasefire and negotiation with the resistance, but these proposals have been rejected by the Mujahideen.