AFGHANews Vol 5, No 7, April 1,1989, page 0
Enemy's psychological war designed to divide Afghans
The enemy has spread rumors about a secret deal with the Mujahideen. These rumors are spread to create misunderstanding between the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen around Salang, especially commander Masood, are the main target of this psychological warfare.
Masood has complained about the way some news agencies, especially BBC, report the news about these situations. Since BBC broadcasts these reports in Pushtu and Dari, the two major languages spoken in Afghanistan, it creates misunderstanding among the Mujahideen of different regions.
Disinformation has been one of the main Soviet weapons against the Mujahideen. The major field commanders like Ismail Khan, Masood and others have been the main targets of these propaganda attacks.
The late propaganda against Masood is build on the assumption that Masood can block Salang. If the road is not blocked, there must be understanding between him and the communist regime.
It is true that Masood is a major force in the area and can block the road if he wants but it should not be assumed that blocking the road is an easy task. Effective blocking of the Salang highway needs a general mobilization of forces in a large area. The local Mujahideen can only create problems for the enemy, something which is being done. A major attack requires preparation, planning and proper timing. More than that any major operation to block the road must be part of a bigger military plan.
An important factor in any such operation is the safety of the civilian population living around the area. This means that the attack can not be launched when the weather is very cold and no alternative arrangements can be made for the evacuation and accommodation of thousands of people. If a major attack is launched while the civilian population is still in the area, a large number of them will be killed by the enemy air force and artillery fire.
The killing of 600 people by the Soviets, before completion of the troop withdrawal, indicates the seriousness of the situation in this regard.
The war has reached a critical phase. Every step in this phase must be calculated well.
Masood has his own way of doing things. No fighting for the camera and no premature action in reaction to the enemy's propaganda, are the self-imposed rules strictly observed by him during the ten years of war.
Taking into account the climatic conditions and other factors, the level of fighting around the Salang highway is reasonably high.
The Afghan new year has started. The weather is becoming mild. This will allow the Mujahideen to escalate the war. For the Mujahideen the option of agreement with the regime is out of the question. They believe that the regime will fall sooner or later. Why should they compromise or deal with a weak enemy?
The enemy is exploiting the unsophisticated nature of the Afghan common man and wrong competition among the Mujahideen political
Turn to page (7 )
Louis Dupree
From page ( 3 )
they will not give up, they will continue to resist until the Soviets are forced out of their country".
He said the same thing on numerous lectures around the world, in articles and interviews, in every possible forum where he could make his voice heard. Even during the worst years, between 84 and 8(6, when the Soviets tried to bomb Afghanistan back to the stone age, when they attacked furiously in a last desperate attempt to crush the Afghan spirit of resistance, when many people who supported and believed in the Afghan cause did not dare to hope any more; even then he never expressed a single doubt that the Afghan people would reach victory in the end.
Louis was right, because he had above all one thing in common with the Afghans, which was crucial in his profound and unique understanding of them; he was not a quitter. Just like the Afghans he was a tighter.
Dupree was lucky to see the departure of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan but he did not live long enough to go back to a peaceful Afghanistan and renew his contacts with the people whom knew in the past.
Dupree's death is considered a great loss for Afghans. Prof. Rabbani, the Jamiat leader, in a message to Nancy has called Dupree’s death untimely.
"Mr. Dupree has a special place among scholars on Afghanistan. He was not only intellectually interested in Afghanistan, but also was emotionally attached to the land and its people", Prof. Rabbani's message reads.
Dupree and his wife spent the last six months in Peshawar to continue their job. When he left Peshawar there were,a.lot of talk about the interim government in Afghanistan. In an article Dupree wrote that if the Afghans were left alone they would be able to find a solution to their problems.
OIC condemns Rushdi's book
The OIC ministerial conference has condemned Salman Rushdi for writing the blasphemous book' Satanic Verses'.
The meeting also called on publishers to immediately withdraw the circulation of the book and appealed to the Muslim stales to boycott those publishers who failed to do so.
Salman Rushdi’s book has hurt the feeling of the Muslims all over the world.