AFGHANews Vol 5, No 18 & 19, October 1,1989, page @
Woh is who in the Mujahideen
Comr. Hamisha Gul
Commander Hamisha Gul was bom 36 years ago in a poor village in Sayed Abad district of Wardak province.
His father was a fanner working on other people's land. "In the winters my father used to work in Peshawar to get some money. Perhaps we were the worest family in the Milli Khail vil-age. My mother could read and write. She taught me the Quran and helped me to leam the basics of Islam," Hamisha Gul recalled. "It was my mother who had a keen interest to send me to school," the commander said.
His elder brother helped him to go to the primary school in the Milli Khail where he was bora
"After six years of schooling one day a delegation came to choose students for the military school in Kabul. 1 was selected and taken to Kabul." Commander said.
Hamisha Gul completed his military school scoring the highest marks and joined the military college. Again he was the best amongst, his classmates. He completed his college scoring first division awarded with a golden watch which was the most prestigious award for the graduates of the military college.
He became a signal officer at Qala-i-Jangi division in Kabul. After one year he was appointed as a lecturer in the same military college that he graduated from. He worked for six years as a
An Indian diplomat has met with the Iran-based Mujahideen parties in order to leam their views on solving the Afghan problem.
The Indian external-affairs undersecretary visited Tehran to discuss bilateral issues, including Afghanistan, with the Iranian leaders.
India has failed to condemn the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, and has maintained close ties with the Soviet-backed Kabul regime.
The Indians, like the Soviets, are making use of.their good relations with Iran to contact Afghan parties based in that country. Due to the past anti-Mujahideen position of India and its close ties with the regime, its government is not in a good position to play the role of a peacemaker.
India dislikes the Mujahideen based in Pakistan because of its longstanding
lecturer and then was sent to Egypt to leam about commando tactics. From 197^-1978 while the communists took over, he was a commando teacher at division No. 8 in Qargha.
Hamisha Gul escapes from Kabul to Wardak and from there to Peshawar. Jami'at provided him with some weapons and became die head of Mujahideen in Wardak.
He established his first base at Gurbat mountains at Sayed Abad . He started Jehad with 40 people.
"The people helped us a lot They used to give us food and encourage their sons to join us." Hamisha Gul said.
His fist successful operation was in 1979, in which he was able to push back the offensive launched by the regime’ forces . Three hundred government soldiers were killed and 48 were captured by his Mujahideen. He captured SO Kalashnikov rifles which was significant booty at that time.
Hamisha Gul expanded his base and was able to increased the number of his Mujahideen from 40 to 600.
His main source of arms and ammunitions at the beginning was road ambushes.
"The regime defence minister, Shahnawaz Tanai was my classmate and Deputy of Commander Ismail, Allaudin Khan was my student” He said.
He is married and has four children.
rivalries with that country. It has shown concern about the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. India fears that an Islamic government in Kabul might give a morale boost to millions of Indian Muslims who are suppressed by the Hindu majority.
Mujaddidi meets with US Senator
US Senator Pell met with the president of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG), Sebghatullah Mujaddidi in Peshawar on August 24.
In the talks which continued for two hours, the military and political situations in Afghanistan came under discussion.
Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar Suspended its membership of the AIG, a communique of Hezb wrote on August 28.
According to the communique the ministers of Hezb will not participate in the cabinet meetings until the election process has started.
Hezb says that it is suspending its membership in the government because AIG has failed to hold elections as it had promised.
The other reason for the decision could be Hezb's unhappiness about the way some members of the government criticized Hezb's involvement in the Farkhar incident
There are indications of covert efforts by friends of Afghans to bring Hikmatyar back to the fold of the government. Some Arab are involved in these efforts. They are also trying to improve relations between Hezb and lami'at which became tense over the Ferkhar incident
Film director, actors defect to Mujahideen
Three prominent film actors and directors affiliated with the Kabul regime television defected to the Mujahideen from Jamiat on July 17, Supervisory Council fortnightly 'Shoora' reported.
The three actors, Sediqullah Barmak, Wali Talash arid Hamayoon Paiz have participated in many films made in Kabul.
Sediqullah Barmak has directed three films namely Diwar (Wall), Daira (Circle) and Baigana (Stranger).
They intend u> put their services at the disposal of the Mujahideen. The Supervisory Council has assured them of every assistance to do die job.
Aid worker released
French aid worker Xavier Lemire was freed on September 14, a month after he was captured by regime troops in Helmand Province.
Mr. Lemire, a 35-year-old physiotherapist and orthopedic specialist for the humanitarian organization Handicap International; said he had been very well-treated for three bullet wounds he received (Hi August 14 when government forces ambushed the truck in which he was riding.
Vincent Gemigon, 24, a fellow worker for Handicap International were also killed.
Indian diplomat meets with Iran-based Mujahideen