AFGHANews Vol7, No 12, June 15,1991, page 0
Obituaries
Cmdr. Sayyed Yahya
Sayyed Yahya, the commander of 5th battalion of the slamic Army of the Supervisory Council, was tilled in fighting against the Cabul regime in Hazar Bagh, Khwaja Ghar on June 2. He was also the commander of Khost-o-Fering and Andarab districts.
He was born in 1960 in Kenom, village in the outskirt of the city of Kunduz. His father, Sayyed Ekram, was a store-keeper • of the Justice Department of the province and lived in the city. Sayyed went to a primary school in Kunduz before joining Takharistan Madrasa.
In school, Sayyed was fond of wrestling. He was a tough opponent for those who bullied him. He surpassed all his relatives in good character and abiding by Islamic values.
He opposed the communists when he was in school. He was a student of 11th class of Takharistan Madrasa, when the communists took power in 1978. He left school shortly afterwards and joined the Mujahideen.
The three Mujahideen commanders, Mohammad Shafiq, Makhdum-i-Kafeel and Qari Rahmatullah had jointly established a base in Qara Batur mountain in Chardara District,- Kunduz Province. Sayyed served as a liaison between the base and the city. Later he moved to Burka along with Makhdum-i-Kafeel and served as a one of his Mujahideen for one year.
Sayyed visited Pakistan and Iran where he was trained by as an explosive expert
Sayyed joined Masood in 1981. He was on his way to Kunduz, his home town, when he met Masood-in Panjshir. Masood found him an interesting young person. He invited him to stay in Panjshir. He accepted the offer.
Sayyed worked as a secretary of Masood in relation with military affairs for several years. In the meantime, he took part in military operations. Panjshir was a hot spot those days. He was learning the art of war from a capable commander in one of the famous stronghold of the Mujahideen. He joined one of the mobile units for a while. He received training and took part in some operations outside the valley
Sayyed helped Masood in his work with the Mujahideen in the North. When Masood decided to expand his influence in the North, he started with
Commander Sayyed Yahya
training of Mujahideen. He sent Sayyed as an instructors to Khost and Khaylab. He took active part in fighting for the capturing of Farkhar and Kalafgan garrisons. He became the commander of Farkhar District in 1986.
He later was the commander of one of the central units of the SC before joining the Islamic Army. He aborted a commando action in Khailab Valley in 1987 launched by the Soviet troops by destroying a helicopter with an RPG rocket.
He made good use of his time in Masood's company. He studied books and learned the Holy Quran from two prominent Arab scholars, Qari Abu Mohammad and Qari Saeed, who spent sometime with Masood.
Sayyed was a good writer. He even tried to write poetry but could not make much progress. He was a strict follower of Hanafite jurisprudence. This created a rift between him and some visiting Arabs who tried to preach their own school of thought
He got married to his cousin in 1987. He has left behind two minor children.
Sayyed Yahya's death is indeed a great loss to die Mujahideen, and Masood lost a loyal friend. The news of his death saddened every one who knew him or had heard about him.
Abdul Hakim
Abdul Hakim, 28, commander of a unit of the Islamic Army of the Supervisory Council, was killed in action against the Kabul regime in Hazar Bagh, Khwaja Ghar, on June 2, 1991. Reporting his death, Commander Masood described him as a brave commander.
Abdul Hakim had been bom into a poor family in Peyawosht village in Rukha, Panjshir. His father, Khan Mohammad, was a farmer. His family’s poverty kept Abdul Hakim from attending school. He learned to read and write during Jehad, however.
Abdul Hakim joined the Mujahideen in 1979. He took part in numerous military operations in Panjshir, Salangand Shomali.
He displayed courage and leadership ability while fighting Soviet troops in 1984. He was the first man to return to Rukha after the Mujahideen's evacuation of the valley.
At the end of 1984, he was appointed commander of Anaba in lower Panjshir, site of a Soviet stronghold. He and a few of his Mujahideen penetrated the enemy base and rescued some local people whose homes lay within its defenses and who wanted to escape. They also inflicted casualties on the enemy during this mission.
In 1985, he became the commander of Abdara, another side valley in lower Panjshir. In 1987, he visiter Peshawar for medical treatment but soon retumed to Afghanistan.
Before joining the Islamic Army in 1989, he served as commander of a group of 30 men in Rukha, Panjshir.
Abdul Hakim was a God-fearing and soft-spoken person with a humble character. His martyrdom is a loss to the Mujahideen. He has left behind a widow and two minor sons.
Wheelchairs for Afghan war victims
According to the JIA representation in Australia, 100 pairs of crutches and 15 wheelchairs are about to be provided for victims of war in Afghanistan. The total cost of the project is Aust. $6750 (approx. 121,500Rupees). This amount is part of the donations collected during the Ramadhan appeal.
The wheelchairs and crutches are expected to be purchased in the next few weeks in Pakistan, and distributed by a designated body among disabled Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council.
In a message, JIA's Supervisory Council representative in Pakistan, Dr. Said Ahmad Haqbeen, thanked the Muslim community of Australia for their ^support of the Afghan cause.____________________________