sage of dangerous challenges. Muslim nations, deeply wounded by the cruelty of colonialism, have still not healed and now face new threats.
The first result of close relations between the two superpowers is the migration of large numbers of Soviet Jews to occupied Palestine. This not only brings tragedy to the Palestinians, but also raises the threat of a new war in the region.
The good news of the end of cold war between East and West have provoked comments by some Western politicians and thinkers that the danger of communism is replaced by the danger of Islam which must be crushed.
The question is what danger to the West is presented by indigent Muslims who are facing severe economic difficulties and lack the means of offensive wars?
The anti-Isamic voices which hark back to the Crusades must be condemned resolutely.
Today Muslim nations look to OIC with hope to solve their political and economic problems.
Brothers! Although the Afghan nation still suffers from the tragedy caused by the Russian aggression, it is not unmindful of the problems and pains of its fellow Muslim nations.
With feelings of Islamic solidarity, we strongly support the Jehad of the heroic nation of Palestine for the liberation of the occupied territories, for the return of Palestinian refugees to their homeland and the establishment of a Palestinian state.
We strongly condemn the migration of Soviet Jews to the occupied territories and their resettlement there. We consider this a threat to peace and security in the region and in the world.
We support the freedom-loving people of Kashmir who have risen up for their liberty and legal rights. We strongly condemn the savage massacre of Kashmiris by Indian troops. We demand implementation of the UN resolutions so that the people of Kashmir achieve their right of. self determination.
We support the Mujahideen of Eritrea, the Philippines and other countries who are struggling to gain freedom and self determination.
Dear Brothers! The Afghan people have risen up to defend their liberty, right of self-determination, religious beliefs and also_ to establish an Islamic Govememnt in accordance with their aspirations. They wish more than anyone else to restore peace and security in their country. We welcome and support any just political solution which guarantees the honor, dignity and sacked objectives of our nation.
The Islamic Government which the Afghan Mujahideen hope to establish will be a staunch supporter of international peace and Security. We will not allow ourselves to be dragged into vairous political and militay pacts after the down-fall of the present regime. We are in favor of friendly relations with all the counries.
We welcome good neighborly relations and mutural cooperation with the Russians provided they stop interfering in oUr domestic affairs.
We expressing our apprciation and gratitude to all the Muslim countries who supported our nation morally and materially during its liberation struggle. We call upon diem to continue their support until our complete liberation and to help us in the reconstruction of our. country. " ...	.	.	-X
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 16, August 15, 1990, page Q
Dear Sir,
Thank you very much for AFGHANews March, April and May issues. The copies have been distributed to sister Muslim organizations in Japan. If we receive more copies, we will distribute them to other organizations.
Abdul Munir Watanabe Chairman Islamic Center Tokyo-Japan
Dear sir.
My apologies for having taken so long to thank you for sending a copy of the AFGHANews (15 April). I found it interesting, particularly the article "Who is Who in the Mujahideen". Would you please continue to send the paper to me?
Peter Wilkins Campbell
Dear sir.
The article ''Mujahideen final winners of war in Afghanistan" published in July 1, 1990 issue of AFGHANews is convincing.
Mohamed Raffick
Port-Louis
Mauritius
Dear sir,
I am very grateful for AFGHANews you sent to me. I find interesting information in your paper.
Robert Jansson
Abo- Finland
Dear sir,
I read AFGHANews with keen interest. I like to receive it regularly to get information about my Mujahideen brothers.
Ahmad T.S. Fagge
Kano-Nigeria
Australia
Dear sir.
You sent a copy of the history of the Islamic movement in Afghanistan written by Dr. Tawana and published in AFGHANews. This article will help a lot. I am attempting to get beneath the factionalism which unfortunately mars the Jehad in Afghanistan.
I would like to take this opportunity to express my opinion concerning the article on page seven of the June 1, 1990 issue _ of AFGHANews, "Coordinated warfare should be top aim of commanders' moot”. I think this move is long overdue, and I applaud the effort. I agree totally with Mohammad Es'haq views, and believe that only the development of such a council will make victory possible. .
Daryl Champion
Cheltenham	^
Australia
Dear sir,
AFGHANews is an interestihg publication. It keeps the foreigners, as well as Afghan refugees informed about the situation in Afghanistan. Thank .you for sending, the paper regularly-to nje.	v
Khalil Ahmad Najmyar
Virginia, USA ......
The information provided by AFGHANews is needed by the Muslims in the United States. Please continue to send your paper to me.
Mohammad Sirajullahi Enfield, CT U.S.A
Editorial
- From Page 4
The invasion of Kuwait has increased the chances of military confrontation in the Gulf which will cause a lot of human suffering for the people in the region.
The Mujahideen have asked for the: immediate and unconditional withdrawal of Iraqi forces from Kuwait and the restoration of the legitimate government of Kuwait Prof. Rabbani took a strong stand against the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in the OIC meeting in Cairo.
The passage of time should not soften the position of the international community on the issue and they should not accept half way solutions. Any half way solution complicates the problem and gives a chance to the aggressor to bdie-fit from the fruit of their invasion. Any attempt by Israel to exploit the situation1 : to consolidate, its illegal control over die . occupied territories will strengthen die position of Saddam in the crisis. He has started to use the Palestinian card, to coyer up its aggression against Kuwait.
x ...^ ■ •' •	.:....... v