AFGHANews Vol 5, No 15, August 1,1989, page Q
Jami'at victim of organized terror
Hekmatyar's Hezb Islami committed an unprecedented crime by killing 30 Jami’at Mujahideen and commanders in Takhar Province on July 9. The incident took place in a very sensitive phase of Afghanistan's struggle fen liberation.
Commander Ahamad Shah Masood convened a meeting of Jami'at commanders from Takhar, Kunduz, Badakhshan and Baghlan in Feikhar district on July 4. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss strategy for launching summer attacks against the communist regime of Najibullah. The meeting ended cm July 9. The commanders woe returning to their own areas when some of titan woe ambushed in Tangi Ferkhar, a gorge between Ferkhar district and Taleqan city. Mujahideen from Hezb Islami Hekmatyar under the command of Sayyed Jamal carried out the attack.
Commander Abdul Wadood and four Mujahideen were killed in the ambush and 25 others were taken prisoner. They woe executed by Hezb the next day.
The mutilated bodies of some of those killed were returned but bodies of the rest are still missing.
The incident shocked every one because nobody expected such an unprovoked action in a very important phase of the struggle.
Some weeks before the Ferkhar meeting ail the Mujahideen groups in Takhar, including Hezb Islami had signed an agreement to keep the road open and cooperate with each other in providing security for the city of Taleqan. Jami'at commanders passed the area under Hezb's control on their way to the meeting. There was no reason why they should not pass the area when they returned. \
The loss of so many commanders and Mujahideen is painful. The timing makes it even more tragic. This was the time to pay attention to military operations against the regime. The purpose of Jami'at commanders attending the Ferkhar meeting was to end the stalemate situation in the battlefield. After the failure of the Jalalabad operation eyes had turned towards Masood. He was preparing for a coordinated action against the communist regime. He spent a great deal of time organizing his army and talking to commandos in the region to evolve a strategy . Masood had just returned from Panjshir where he held meetings with commanders of the north of Kabul. After the Ferkhar meeting of Jami'at commanders he wanted to invite the commanders belonging to other parties for a similar conference so that all of them should participate in action against the enemy.
The incident is not part of local friction between the Mujahideen. Without encouragement by Hezb leadership in Peshawar this incident could not have happened. Jami'at is a dominating force in the area. For Sayyed Jamal it must have been a difficult decision to do it on his own. He must have been assured of party support by Hezb leadership in Peshawar to deal with the consequences of the crime in the form of reprisal actions by the Council.
The action cannot be described as an irresponsible act of a frustrated commander who has been fighting for his survival against a dominating rival force. The situation was normal and Sayyed Jamal knew that the Council did not involve itself in local problems.
There are clues that Hezb was preparing the ground for committing the tragedy before it happened. For two months an extensive propaganda campaign had been launched against Com. Masood and the Council to give the impression that Jami’at Mujahideen in the north were creating problem for Hezb and that Masood and the Council were a source of tension in the area. Hezb involved some Arab volunteers who did not like Masood because of his independent policies in this propaganda war. A delegation of Jamaat Islami of Pakistan who had gone to the area also returned from Afghanistan with similar stories which were spread
extensively.
In the past, Jami’at played down the problems between the Mujahideen parties. Small incidents were not made public. The Ferkhar massacre changed Jami'at's view. The incident was a serious development with far reaching consequences for Jehad. Afghans and those who are interested should know about the facts. More than that the tragedy took place in such a scale and manner that no room was left to hide it Two foreign journalists were close to the scene of the crime and a representative of the International Red Cross witnessed the delivery of mutilated bodies of Jami’at commanders killed by Hezb. Very soon they will come with an independent report about the incident.
Jami'at will try to cool down the situation and not to let the enemies of Afghanistan exploit the situation. But, it will find it tremendously difficult to check the people's emotions without bringing the criminals to justice.
Those killed were not ordinary people. They were important commanders of the parties with thousands of followers. Some of them were affiliated with the Islamic Movement from the start. A possible solution to defuse die situation is to hand over the criminals to a body of Ulama so that they can be tried under Islamic law.
Khalis commander killed by mine
Commander hratiullah of Hezb Islami (Khalis group) was killed along with three of his Mujahideen when their jeep hit a land-mine near Kbost, Paktia province on July 21.
The important Mujahideen commander was coming from Nadirshah Kot when the incident occurred. He was buried in Khost
Matiullah was born 42 years ago in Sapira district of Paktia. After graduating fromTeacher Training School in Geidiz he became a teacher far two months.
He was an old member of the Islamic Movement and became a refugee in Pakistan in 1974.
In his party he had served in many important posts. He served as the commander of Zadrah front for some time. He became the provincial Amir of Paktia and the executive member of his party. He also saved as the head of the military committee of his organization.
In tiie cabinet of Eng. Ahmad Shah he was appointed minister of agriculture and held the post of Deputy Interior Minister of the Interim Government of the Mujahideen.