AFGHANews Vol7, No 24, December 15,1991, page ©
(Comment	by:	Mohammad	Ks'haqjl
UN report needs balance
Shahr-i-Bozorg troops defect
Dr. Felix Ermacora's report on the I human rights situation in Afghanistan is an honest attempt to inform the world about suffering of Afghans both | at home and in the refugee camps.
His reports, however, has flaws | which are worth mentioning so that it 1 can more balanced in the future.
When he says "human rights are I violated and obvious acts of terrorism perpetrated by the opposition forces promoted the government to retaliate". It gives the reader an impression that the Kabul regime merely reacts to attacks by the Mujahideen. In 1991, the Kabul regime launched massive offensive operations with disastrous consequences against peaceful areas controlled by the Mujahideen. Attacks on Zindajan, Herat Province, and unpro-| voked bombardments of Taliqan,
I Bamyan and many other places are but a few examples such operations. Ermacora might be referring to rocket attacks on Kabul. All Mujahideen groups have condemned random attacks on civilian targets. It is generally believed that the Kabul regime itself is responsible for some of the rocket attacks to defame the _ Mujahideen at home and abroad. If rocket attacks are •terrorist acts when directed against civilians, firing SCUDs and high-altitude bombing of civilian targets by the re-| gime should also be called terrorism.
I do not agree with the reporter's I view that the liberated areas rarely have a genuine administration and that I law and order are uncertain there.
In any war-tom country there are I problems, but such generalizations could be very misleading. In large are-| as controlled by the Mujahideen there
Council Bank branch onened in Peshawar
A branch of the Islamic Bank of the Supervisory Council has been opened in Peshawar. The major job of Peshawar branch is to transfer money between Peshawar and Taliqan, the headquarters of the bank. Relief organizations and merchants have begun to use the services of the bank. The Peshawar office of the bank is headed by Khair Mohammad and operates from the following address:
Room 203
Second floor - Jamrud Road Peshawar Phone*. 40437
are administrations which look after law and order. In vast areas controlled by Jami’at, for example, the law and order situation is very good — ten times better than in cities controlled by the regime. Jami'at is ready to invite Ermacora to visit these areas. Such a visit would lend some balance to his future reports.
I was surprised by his conclusion regarding regime efforts to reconcile Hazaras and Pushtoons. Ermacora may have studied a very special case, but reports as if it were an important regime policy. Kabul is fighting a war for its survival. It uses every weapon, including tribal, religious and ethnic differences, to promote its cause. Najib call himself Afghan when speaks in Persian, but poses as a Pushtoon when addresses people in Pushtu. Differences within Watan Party along ethnic lines provide a better example of the. regime's position on such issues.
The reporter does not take a firm stand on bombing by Kabul of peaceful cities like Taliqan, Bamyan and Kunar, which are far from the battlefields. A video showing the barbaric bombing of civilian targets in Taliqan has been prepared by a BBC team, and will be shown on December 28. The reporter should obtain a copy of the film to compare reality with the claims of the Kabul regime.
While the reporter has praised the generally humane treatment of prisoners taken by the Mujahideen after the fall of Khost, he fails to mention the amnesty announced by the Supervisory Council to thousands of regime soldiers and militiamen in Takhar and Badakhshan in 1991. This Was reported by AFGHANews as well as by independent Western reporters.
More than 30 armed militiamen of I the SAZA faction surrendered to the Mujahideen of Jami’at in Shar-i-Bozorg sub-district, Badakhshan Province, on October 21. They were stationed in| Gharghara post on the border of Chayab district, Takhar Province.
Two months ago, 20 armed militiamen of the same faction surrendered I to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in an areal between Shar-i-Bozorg and Faizabad, | the provincial capital.
Shar-i-Bozorg is defended by | about 2,000 local militiamen. The attempt by the Supervisory Council to I liberate the district in 1990 failed due to problems created for the SC forces | by the Mujahideen of a rival party.
A Mujahid coming from the area I said the situation in Shar-i-Bozorg had improved considerably in the past year. The militiamen in Shar-i-Bozorg were isolated after the regime forces were I defeated in neighboring Takhar Province, and the rival party was no longer in a position to create problems for the Mujahideen of the Council if | they wanted to attack the militiamen.
He said the militiamen in Shar-i-| Bozorg are local people who have the support of the people in the villages] they control.
SAZA has been active in the area I since the time of the king. In Nadimi I secondary school, for example, out of I 600 students at least 300 of them were active supporters of SAZA, formerly known as Setam-i-Milli. The activists of the Islamic movement in the school [ numbered only 10 people. This made it I difficult for the Mujahideen to spread! their influence in the district quickly. The Mujahideen, however, have suc-| ceeded in isolating the communists, paving the way for the fall of Shar-i- ] Bozorg in the near future.
,	< ' V,	-
(Narrated Abdullah bin Amr: A|
I man came to the Prophet (beace he	|
— * ill -» Tk'-'v-v- ■ -; v -v",