AFGHANI Vol 4, No 8. April 15.. 1588, Page?.
Editorial ...
 reached behind its back.
   The Soviet forces may leave under the terms cf the agreement but there is clear evidence that they want their puppet in powr to ensure their influence in Afghanistan.
   The Geneva treaty trill not block future Soviet interference in Afghanistan. The Soviet Union could continue its direct and indirect intererence making use of hundreds of treaties they have signed with the communist regime in Afghanistan.
 About a broad-based government that Pakistan tabled in the last round of talks, it was agreed that Mr. Cordcvez, the UN mediator, in his private capacity ■rill help bring about an understanding between Afghans.
   The past experience of the Resistance -with Mr.
 Cor doves and the developments after the Geneva agreement indicate that no positive outcome can be expected from these efforts.
   Since the Mujahideen can not form a coalition government with the Communists, and the Soviets will not back off from supporting their Communist friends after getting the recognition of the regime and blocking tiie Mujahideen's access to the outside world, continuation of the war is inevitable. This decision is imposed by the Soviets, the puppets and the UN-sponsored agreement in Geneva. It is a difficult decision but there is no alternative. Who can surrender to a Communist regime which has brought all this tragedy to Afghanistan? Who will share power with the communists who are not ashamed cf ushering the Red Army into their country?
   In choosing the way of armed struggle, we will face great problems. There will be no way for the Resistance to get humanitarian assistance in the form of food, clothes, medicine etc to help million of needy people in the liberated areas. The Geneva agreement will end all sort of cross border operations from Pakistan From Iran there are not enough chances of starting such programs.
   Military supplies will be a problem too. The positive symmetry that the superpower have signed can not be applied to help the Resistance.
 The P.eagan administration raised the issue under pressure from the US Congress, but after Pakistan has signed the agreement there will be no way to send military or non-military aid to the Resistance. Therefore, it seems that the issue of symmetry was a domestic issue for the Americans, having nothing to do with, support for Afghans. The possibility of a secret understanding between the US and USSR on the issue could not be ruled out.
   Despite all odds the Afghan Resistance will start a new phase in the armed struggle with, the strong belief that the final victory is theirs It has the ability to defeat the puppet regime end regain the total, freedom of Afghanistan. Geneva has failed to gain the legitimate right of the Afghans and the use of force is the only way left to them.
 Afghans play in exile
    Ex -members of the National Volleyball Team of Afghanistan haw started to play sender the name of 'Afghan Club' in Peshawar. They haw participated in a number oi contests in. the North-Vest Frontier Province and won many of the games.
    Abdul Basir, one of the club members said Afghan refugees show great interest in playing the games and watching them.
 Establishment of the Afghan Club is a sign of that interest.
    He said that the slab has 12 players most of whom were members of the Afghan National Team who fled the coantry after the Russian invasion
    About the future plans of the club, Basir said:
 “there is a chance of expanding oar sports programs if the Mujahideen parties provide as with sport facilities and financial assistance. Ve need the encouragement of the leaders of the Mujahideen to improve and expand our activities."
    Basir is of the opinion that the Mujahideen parties should encourage all sport activities like wrestling, football, basketball and Buskaehi etc.
    Concerning the acid Yemenis of the Afghan Club he said: “ Ve had a series of tournaments with provincial and local teams of the S.V.F.P 3nd were able to win two cups during the current year.
    The latest volleyball tournament was played among several teams in Hangoo and the Afghan Club won the first prise.