HFDWttl tEWS VOL.Ill, HO.12, 15/6/ 1997 PRGE 7
 recruitment of puppet communist regimes. If the Gulf countries — especially Kuwait --can not read the writing on the wall, they deserve to be doomed.
 In the meantime, the Afghan Mujahideen will continue their sacred Jehad regardless of other countries' position towards their just cause. They are certain that they will liberate their country with the Help of God Almighty sooner or later. On that day they will remember these critical stages of their struggle. Moreover, history will record those who flinched in their opposition to oppression and injustice out of intimidation. More importantly, God Almighty will certainly question hard those who have failed to fulfill their religious and human responsibilities.
                                        A MESSAGE FROM JAMI*AT TO SOLIDARITY MOVEMENT IN POLAND
 To the freedom fighters of Poland,                                                 «
 The struggle of the Afghan Muslim nation against the Russian invasion and the inhuman idealogy of of communism is a glowing torch upholding the' cause of the oppressed people of the world. Our nation — together with other world people -- * watches the Polish nation's struggle against totalitarianism with firm determination in continuation of armed struggle and implacable faith in final victory.
 Ve feel ourselves close to you and consider 'Solidarity" as a manifestation of your nation's soldidarity with and support of our cause. Ve are glad to see that this support grows wider each year.
 Ve express our appreciation to the Polish activists for their splendid activities in defense of the godly oppressed people of Afghanistan in an atmosphere of repression this year.
 As we understand, on May 1,1987 —"May Day"— there were demonstrators in support of Afghanistan in most of the cities of your heroic land. A lot of the demonstration were sent to prisons of oppression and tyranny.
 Earlier, on February 13.1987, the organization for'' Freedom and Peace" staged an open protest rally against torture in Afghanistan in Kracow. The "Resistance Group" has been active by publishing underground publications, books and stamps in support of the Afghan people’s struggle.
 The Afghan Mujahid nation appreciate your eff orts and self-sacrifice and believes that they are helpful in our struggle. The Afghan Resistance keeps the Afghan people informed about the situation in Poland and the goals of Solidarity in its radio programs and publications.
 Ve believe the nations which have risen up for certain ideals will reach victory sooner or later. Ho satanic power, nor any repression nor pressure, neither murder nor terror are able to break down a nations's determination.
 Ve believe that the One and only God will certainly fulfill His promise. The Holy Quran gives us the glad-tiding that" The Truth came and the Falsehood is annihilated. Indeed the Falsehood is bound to annihilation."
 Rejection of imperialism is not the only common bond between the struggle of the two nations of Afghanistan and Poland. Positive bonds also brings us close to each other: Belief in One Creator as well as religious . moral and spiritual values. It is upon us to hold each other's hands in order to shorten our distance to victory and to break the walls of silence.
 It is absolutely necessary to reveal the Soviet crimes at the world-wide level in the same way that Hitler's crimes were revealed. Vhat an honor and felicity that with the acceptance of innumberable hardships two oppressed nations play a constructive historical role in this regard.