flFGVRH HEUS UOL.III, NO.0, 15/4/ 198? PRGE 3
 19/3/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at in Mohmand Dara in co-opertation with the Mujahideen from NIFA attacked enemy positions at Razi Qala. Six militias were wounded. Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
 23/3/1987. Mujahideen fired 8 shells of 107mm rockets at the enemy positions in Hazar Naw area. 3 puppets were injured and one killed.
                                             JA WZJANPROVINCE
 19/3/1987. Mujahideen from jami'at in Qarqin district attacked the puppet positions in Keiift, a town located on the Afghan-Soviet border. Fighting continued for two and half hours. One officer and 5 puppet soldiers were captured along with their weapons and a communications set of R-105 type The enemy sustained casualties but the report does S not give exact figures. 5 Mujahideen were injured in the operation.
 Keiift is a border town through which the gas pipeline passes. Gas is an important products of Afghanistan which is being exported to the Soviet Union at a lower price than the international market.
                                               NORTH OF KABUL
 22/3/1987. One militia was killed when he stepped on a land mine planted by the Mujahideen in village of Estarghich in Qarabagh district.
 26/3/1987. Combined forces of the enemy attacked Jami'at areas of Qarabagh district. Fighting continued from 6:00 Am. till 9:00 Pm Five enemy tanks were destroyed with RPG fire and 35 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded. 5 Mujahideen were martyred in this operation.
                                               HERAT PROVINCE
 30/3/1987. According to a report from commander Esmaiel Khan, a known militia commander namely, Ahmad Shah who has been working for a long time with the government of Kabul, along with 40 armed men, joined Mujahideen of Herat in Jam village of Enjeel district.
 In three different operations the enemy forces attacked Mujahideen in the areas of the Western part of the city of Herat. On 23rd March, the enemy forces launched an offensive to besiege places like Karta and Dasht-e-Ali (suburb of Herat city). Mujahideen in their counter operation, were able to kill 6 and wound about 40 enemy soldiers. Two Mujahids were wounded.
 24/3/1987 The enemy troops attacked the areas of the Western part of Enjeel district. Mujahideen in their counter operation destroyed 6 different kinds of fighting vehicle and killed about 40 of the enemy soldiers.
 The report also says that a group of KHAD members ambushed a group of the ? Mujahideen and captured 6 of them on 24rd March. Later the Mujahideen of the area launched a counter-ambush which resulted in the release of those captured Mujahideen. 6 KHAD members were killed and 6 AK-47s seized.
 A different source reports that during these daysthe Kabul defense minister was also in Herat city.
                                            FARTAB PROVINCE
 19/3/1987. Mujahideen from jami'at in Faryab city under the command of Mawlavi Sayed Mohammad Yousuf captured 3 high ranking officers in day light at Ganj Market in the heart of the city. The officers were from the National Reconciliation Committee of the puppet regime. The report says that the prisoners were all handed over to the