RFGHRH HEUS UOL.III, HO.17, 1/9/1W.PWE 4
                          KUNDUZ PROVINCE
August 14.87: Mujahideen of Alfarooq front under the command
of samiullah performed a guerrilla; attack on the puppet regime's forces in Angoor Bagh. They fooled the enemy troops by wearing their own uniforms, as a result they were able to capture a number of officers including two high ranking officials belonging to KHAD. It is reported that the puppet regime has shown readiness to exchange the Mujahideen in its jails for those captured.
August 10,1987: Mujahideen of Alfarooq front of Jamiat Islami launched an attack on the Pul-e-Kheshti military post in Al i Abad of Kunduz.In’the operation three-: enemy troops— including a notorious officer named Turan Juma-were killed , and 19 soldiers and officers were arrested. Mujahideen captured 25 Kalashinkovs. 15 boxes of ammunitions and some other weapons. . A Mujahid commander, Wahidi, was wounded.
August .2,1981: Mujahideen of Alfarooq front under the command of Tash Taimor attacked a convoy of the puppet regime on ’ Kunduz-Baghlan road. They killed two enemy troops, wounded Three and captured another two of them. They also seized 14 tons of wheat and two 'kalashinkovs-. .
                                        PAKTIA PROVINCE
             Mujahideen of Jamiat in Ghul ing .under the command of Mtrza Khan shot down a Russian military transportion plane by Sam-7 rocket. Eight persons in the plane were killed in the incedent.
                     KUNAR-PROVINCE
 Aug. 3.87: Mujahideen of^Abu Ubaid Front under the command of Mai ang attacked the Lamatak military post in Tarhang sub district by Mortar and other heavy and light weapons. Nine communist troops were killed and 12 were wounded.
 ' Augl 7.87Mu iahideen of Harwal Front attacked enemy’s military posts in Sarkani . Three militias were killed and four were wounded.
                      JAWZJAN PROVINCE
July. 1987:   Mujahideen captured the Zair-e-Jar military
post of the enemy after 18 hours of fighting. Five enemy troops were killed and nine were wounded. Mujahideen seized five Kalashinkovs, one machineyun, and 10 boxes of ammunitions.
July 24.1987: Six Russian jets heavily bombarded the liberated areas under the control of Jamiat Mujahideen’s central front. One person was martyred and 27 were wounded. Fifteen of those injured were children studying in a Madrasa (religious school). Napalm bombs used]'by the Russians burned down five wheat fields and killed about 100 sheep and cattle.