fifGHHH HEUS VBL.I'J, Hfl. 5., J/3/1«389, PR3E 7
 The station was partially destroyed by canon shelling which resulted in a power cut-off in Kabul for several days. Ten DRA soldiers patrolling the station were also killed arid vour.ded during the firing.
                               REITERATION OF ST3NG ON COfillTION GOUERNMENT
                                  Jamiat islomi Afghanistan issued the following statement on February 25. >988.
 There are indications that the puppet regime in Kabul and its masters are tip to some new plots to create confusion and to defame the leaders of Jehad.
 Recently rumors have been spreading that Commander Ahmad Shah Hasood is in Kabul negotiating with, the puppet authorities. This might be a dream of the Russians and their agents, but it will never come true.
 Jamiat Island Afghanistan categorically rejects this rumor as baseless and considers the KGB and KHAD propaganda and disinformation wings responsible for originating it.
 ¥e take this opportunity to once again reiterate out total rejection of a coalition government with the puppet PDPA. Our rejection is based on the following grounds:
 1. The Question of legitimacy: The puppet regime in Kabul is totally illegitimate. It has been installed by the Red Army. It does not have any backing among the people whatsoever.
 Through the coalition government, the Russians want to earn for their puppets the legitimacy that they could not earn by eight years of brutal fighting. Mujahideen, however, are too vise and careful to fall into the trap.
 2. Our principles: The Russian agents in Afghanistan are considered as enemies of Islam and cririnals against the Afghan people. On the basis of the principle for winch the Mujahideen wage their holy Jehad, it is not possible to fora a coalition government with such people.
 3. Lessons from history \ History, especially that of Eastern Europe teaches us that wherever Russians have been able to get a foot-hold in a government through the coalition of their agents with the majority' parties, they have tried to remove the majority by KGB plots and coups. They were able to bring several countries into their orbit by tills means.
 There is no reason to believe that they will not play the same game in Afghanistan.
 <». Practical consideration: It is not very difficult to imagine how a coalition government, consisting of opposing poles, will function. There will be no understanding, no harmony and no cooperation. There will be constant strife within the government which will lead to instability and final collapse.
                   Thus, no Mujahid, be it from the leadership or the rank and file, will be ready to associate with the puppet party in whatsoever way.