 NEWS
 A Biweekly Bulletin Of Jami’at Islam! Afuiianistan. Post Box No. 2C4, Peshawar - Pafc<«t*n. Vol.'ll. No. 12   , IS / 6 / 198^.
                 PROXIMITY TALKS FACING REAL PROBLEMS
    The 7th round of Geneva proximity talks, on Afghanistan started with a great; deal of Optimism but ended with no real achievements. They will start again later but they can not lead to real peace because they are not based on sound foundation.
    The desire for a settlement is found every where and Afghan people who suffer the most are more interested in peace than any body else. But if the peace process is not based on reasonable foundations the achievement of a peaceful solution is no more than wishful thinking.
    The weakest point of these talks is the absence of Mujahideen and Soviets., (the two parties of the war )»• from the talks. As fax as we know there is no possiblity of such participation in the present format' of the talks. The vague term of consultation with refugees will not satisfy the Resistance.
    The Soviet absence makes any deal less certain and not even worth trying. The Soviets have been given the status of guarantor equal to the status given to the U.S. It is a great tragedy to equate the two countries. One is the invader and the other is accused of helping die freedom fighters. This is in line with the Sovietts pretext that ’’for-iegn intervention caused the invitation for the invasion".
    The absence of an arrangement for the exercise of the right for self-determination, changes the whole talks to something which calls for the surrender of Freedom Fighters to the Soviets. This means the recognization of a regime which was imposed in 1979 by 85,OCX) Soviet troops. Even if this unjust arrangement takes place and-the people of Afghanistan are deprived from a political base and access to free world media there are a large number of technical problems and possible Soviet reactions which are not yet answered..
    If the refugees do not feel safe and decide not to go bade under the rule of the puppet regime and the Soviets what will happen? If they go , should they go with arms of without arms? should they go to
 the liberated areas or Soviet—controlled areas. Once they:, are there.