“	:	AFGHANews	Vol	6,	No	8,	April	15,1990, page @
What does Jehad mean?
Islam shuns the use of current vocabulary and adopts a terminology of its own revolutionary ideals that may lDe distinguished from common ideals. The word Jehad belongs to this particular terminology of Islam. Islam purposely rejected the word harb and other Arabic words bearing the same meaning of 'war' and used the word Jehad which is synonymous with 'struggle', though more forceful and wider in connotation. The nearest correct meaning of the word Jehad in English can be expressed as: To exert one's utmost endeavor in promoting a cause.
To change the outlook of the people and initiate a mental revolution among them through speech or writing is a form of Jehad. To alter the old tyrannical social system and establish a new just order of life by the power of sword is also Jehad and to expend goods and exert physically for this cause is Jehad too. The pen is as much a weapon of Jehad as is the rifle.
But the Jehad of Islam is not merely a struggle; it is a 'struggle in the cause of Allah' an essential condition in Islam. People have been misled into believing that Jehad in the way of Allah enjoining forcible conversion of other people to the faith of Islam. However, nothing could be further from the truth. All such work as is un-
Eastern bloc countries are turning to hard currency in their trade with the Kabul regime, said the Washington Post.
Freed from Soviet strong-arming, a number of the east-bloc countries are rapidly abandoning barter with Afghanistan, Conducted with "clearing dollars" from Kabul; they are turning instead to hard-currency trade, or "free" dollars.
"We were pressured before to trade goods in Afghanistan in exchange for -well. I'm not quite sure what," said one east-bloc envoy, who described the so-called clearing dollars as "funny money."
A Czech diplomat said that his country’s trade with Afghanistan used to be 40 percent hard currency and 60 percent barter, but "in the last two years, those figures- have reversed themselves."
Aalysts said that trend is expected
dertaken for the collective well-])eing of mankind and in which the functionary has no vested interest in the present world, his sole interest being to win the favour of Allah, is regarded in Islam as an 'act in the way of Allah'.
The understanding of the concept of 'for the sake of Allah’ is explicitly explained .by the Prophet when he said; "Actions are but by intention and every man shall have that which he intended. Thus he who made Hijra for the sake of Allah and His Prophet, his migration was for Allah and the Prophet; and he who made Hijra to achieve some worldly "benefit or to take some woman in marriage, his migration was for that which he migrated for".
The fact remains that Islam is the religion of peace in the fullest sense of the term; that unjust war was neveram-ongst its teachings; that aggression was never in. its tenets or tolerated by it; that force was never employed to impose it on anyone; that the expansion of Islam was never due to compulsion or oppression.
Courtesy: Bulletin of Forum for Social Studies.
to accelerate with the anticipated linking of East Germany's economy to that of the West.
As a result, the govern-ment of President Najibullah is aggressively / Ni j courting new business, of-	J
feting such attractive deals as tax-free corporate status and allowing full retained earnings for minimal investments.
Work for refugees
The Ministry j of Mines and Industries of the AIG has opened a blanket- weaving factory in Peshawar to provide work for refugees.
According to an official of . that ministry, the factory will produce more than 20,000 blankets annually.
The official added that the minis-
i
try has plan to establish other small factories to provide work for refugees.
Jami'at leader returns from trip to Turkey
Prof. Rabbani has returned from a short trip to Turkey at the invitation of that country's Refa party.
During his stay, he addressed gatherings in Istanbul, Ankara and Chorom. A large number of Turks attended these gatherings. Prof. Rabbani informed them about the situation in Afghanistan.
He also addressed a gathering of Afghan refugees in Istanbul.
Refa is an Islamic party struggling for introduction of Islamic laws through democratic means. Najmuddin Arbakan, the leader of the party, once served as deputy prime minister of Turkey.
Prof. Rabbani discussed the Afghan issue and the situation in Central Asia with Refa leaders. Muslims there are struggling for more religious freedom. Several thousand Afghan refugees also live in Turkey. Most of them are Turkic-speaking people displaced from Wakhan Corridor in Badakhshan.
The Afghan cause is popular in Turkey because of religious and ethnic ties between the two nations.
There are several million Turkicspeaking people living in northern Afghanistan. *
Nationalist leader killed in Peshawar
Doctor Sadat Shigawal, leader of Afghan Millat of Afghanistan, a nationalist party, was killed by unidentified assassins in Shaheen Town, Peshawar on March 27.
Dr. Sadat was the director of the Afghan Aid Association, a relief organization, and a member off Afghan Doctors Unity.
A member of the Afghan Millat told the BBC that the killing was politically motivated, but did not specify which group might be responsible for the murder.
Afghan Millat (Afghan Nation) was active in the university and in government offices during the time ol King Zahir Shah. Later it split between moderates and radicals. The radicals promoted a leftist revolution and became known as Millat, after the name of the newspaper they published.
Most of die moderate followers o\' Afghan Millat in the schools and university joined the Islamic movement when it began its activities.
East Europe asks Najib to pay hard cash for goods he wants