   AFGHAH .NEWS___YfiLJJ____NO. 21___1/11/1986___PAGE 4
 The report adds that in a seperate attack the Faizabad television center was damaged. 2 officers and 20 soldiers of the puppet army mere captured by the Mujahideen and a large amount of ammunition slezed.
 The report is signed by Basir Khan a famous commander in Badakhshan. He has been busy fighting the enemy since the April communist coup and is considered one of the most capable military commonders of Jamiat in the area.
                                     BAGHLAN PROVINCE
 13/8/1986. Soviets and their puppet troops attacked Hosontoi area (close to the city of Baghlan). Fighting continued for 10 hours. Mujohideen resisted the invading force. Turn enemy tanks mere destroyed and a large number of enemy troops mere killed or wounded. Three Mujahideen and 5 civilians were martyred and 19 others wounded.
 23/0/19B6. The enemy airforce hsovNy bombed the area of Hasontal. 4 civilians were martyred and 11 others wounded. People in the areo suffered heavy material losses.
 30/8/B6. Mujahideen attacked an enemy post in the area of Hasontal. About 30 puppet troops were killed or wounded. 12 puppet troops joined the Mujahideen. Mujahideen siezed 20 guns. Two Mujahideen were martyred and five others wounded in the clash between the communist forces and the Islamic Mujahideen.
 The report which has reached us is signed by Arbnb Juma the commander of Hasontal. Rrbab Juma, though not educated himself has taken great Interest in educating the people of the area. In the Mosque schools In his area a targe number of boys ond girls learn how to read and write.
 Rrbab Juma adds in the report that because of little rain fall and very little water for irrigation, farm products were low this yeor, ond because of the offensive and destruction of the houses ond the burning of the harvest the people In the areo ore facing a food shortoge.
                                      LOGAR PROVINCE
 In response to Prof. B Rabbanl's request for coordinated action against the enemy to relieve Mujahideen of Herat from the enemy pressure, Mujahideen from Jamiat Island in Barkl Barak and Kolongar districts launched a series of attacks against several enemy posts like Oeh Moghlan, Padkhab, Darwalsh, Qola-i-Sayed Habib and Shabldon on September 14th and 15th. As a result of the above attack 30 enemy soldiers were killed and 17 others wounded. One tank and one truck were set on fire.