AFGHANewsVol 5, No 2, January 15, 1989, page 4
AFGHANews
•' 1 S?p.6i Box 264, Pfeshawar-'Pakistan Tel: (052}J!4138i '
Editorial
Vorontsov responsible for failure of talks
UNREALISTIC demands of the Soviet delegation was responsible for lack of progress in the talks between the Mujahideen and the Soviet Union representatives.
The Soviet Union agreement to hold direct talks with the Mujahideen was welcomed by the resistance. Two rounds of talks were held, one in Taif of Saudi Arabia and other in Islamabad. Afghans and the rest of the world were expecting the talks would lead to a political settlement.The second round of talks ended with no progress being made.
The reason for the lack of progress was the Soviets insistence that the communist regime should be part of any future political system in Afghanistan.
The present communist regime was brought to power in 1979 when the Red Aimy invaded Afghanistan. Nine years of military and political efforts backed by the Soviets did not give the regime popular support.
The Mujahideen's position is consistent. They say the regime is a product of the invasion and must go with the invading forces.
Yuri Vorontsov's position in the talks was not different from his stand in public. He did not use his diplomatic skills to understand the position of the Mujahideen but used it vainly to create divisions between Afghans. His separate talks with the Mujahideen in Iran and the ex-king in Rome and offering them separate deals all indicate that the Soviet have not reached the decision to deal with the Mujahideen.
Accepting a role for the regime will prolong the war and will be used as pretext by the Soviets to continue their interference in Afghanistan. The Mujahideen have clearly told the Soviet side to choose between future good relationship with Afghan people and supporting a bunch of communists.
It is in the best interest of Afghans, Soviets and peace in region and world that Afghan issue be solved on a just basis . Based on the resolutions passed by the UN, Afghans should determine their future.
Postponement of troops, introduction of new weapons and threat of further support for the regime will not solve the problem on Soviet terms. Giving the Kabul regime a role in the future of Afghanistan under any name is not acceptable.
The slogans of "Stopping blood-shed" raised by the Soviets will not deceive the world. A butcher can not pretend to be the member of an animal protection club. Murderers of half a million Afghans can not shed blood of sympathy for imaginary "bloodbath" in the free Afghanistan.
If the Soviets want peace on their Southern border they should withdraw their troops, end their support in favor of the regime and set the foundation of their relationship with Afghans on new realities.
The end of the regime is in sight. Soviets efforts to save them will not succeed. Soviet leaders should avoid committing a new mistake in Afghanistan.
Obituary
ENAYATULLAH Shafaq son of Maulawi Ahmadulhaq was bom in 1949 in Qala-i-Malik of Bagram district in Perwan province.
When Shafaq was a child he lost both of his parents. He was raised by his uncle. He studied religious subject in a mosque and followed Bagram Secondary school. He enlisted in the topographic School in Kandahar. After graduation he worked as an officer of the Rural Development Authority.
Commander Shafaq got interested in the Islamic movement through his uncle who was teaching in Abu Hanifa religious school. When the communist coup of 1978 took place he migrated to Pakistan.He met Prof. Rabbani and started to help establishing a base in Koh-i-Safi east of Kabul.
He went to Panjshir to meet Commander Ahmad Shah Masood and the revolutionary name of Shafaq (dawn) was given to him by Masood. He established a base close to the famous Bagram Air Base.
Commander Shafaq participated in the fifth meeting of commanders belonging to the Supervisory Council of the North in the spring of 1988. During the meeting the good news of the capture of Bagram district headquarters reached him.
He had launched many attacks against the enemy air base and its surrounding posts. He had scored many victories. He was a tall and thin man who wore simple clothes. He was a military man as well as a good politician. He was interested in education of children and payed attention to solving the problems of the people. Fighting against a super power requires brave people but fighting close to the enemy base needs extremely courageous people. Shfaq had such a courage.
On October 31 he died as martyr in an attack against an enemy outpost at the edge of the air base . He was the 9th member of his family who lost his life in the war against the Soviets and their puppets.
He was married and has left behind a widow and three sons and three daughters.
To honor commander Shafaq the Mujahideen appointed his brother, Gul Aqha to be their commander.