AFGHANews Vol7, No 8, April 15,1991, page 0

'x. ' y / y r ;	^Wu"-	ll>	,	.4,,
\4 I ~ \ m U	^Ajs,	,
v.v.v.v.v.v.'.'.v.v.v.'.’.'.’.v.v.v.-....
&■<£}«>'	Sv	X.^\N	-■	S	^	jf,/	s
/j.	..	v,	v	&*"'	o	,	S
':%Sf- ?##- '•'•4
, >5^'	W)	--	<5
Editorial
Liberation of Khost to usher more gains for Mujahideen
The liberation of Khost is a major victory for the Mujahideen and if exploited wisely, could bring to an end the current stalemate in Afghanistan.
Khost garrison fell to the Mujahideen on March 31, after a siege of the city which lasted for about 12 years. A large number of enemy troops woe captured along with a. great quantity of aims and ammunition. The Mujahideen's casualties were believed to be light.
The key factors in the fall of Khost were coordination of the operation, good planning and proper timing.
Preliminary reports from Khost say that the Mujahideen behaved responsibly in dealing with the prisoners of war and there were no reports of looting or personal revenge. Prisoners were provided with necessary medical assistance.
This deprived the Kabul regime of a propaganda tool against the Mujahideen and improved the world image of the Afghan resistance. It will have a positive effect on the regime's soldiers, and make their surrender easier in future operations. The fall of Khost inflicted a severe blow on the morale of the Kabul regime, which announced a day of mourning.
The major task now facing the Mujahideen is consolidating their victory and using it to intensify military operations against the Kabul regime. In addition to adopting necessary defensive measures in Khost, the Mujahideen need to engage other enemy garrisons so that the regime will have no opportunity to recapture the town.
The key question for the Mujahideen is: How to use Khost victory to break the current stalemate? They need to maintain the current military momentum. Weather conditions and attitudes in the country are ripe for an escalation of military activities all over Afghanistan. The Mujahideen victory at Khost will incite the Mujahideen in other parts of Afghanistan to launch attacks on the Kabul regime so that they are not left behind in the liberation of Afghanistan.
The council of commanders can play a coordinating role in this phase of the war. Commander Jalaluddin Haqqani, who played the key role in liberation of Khost and who is the current chairman of the CC, can take the initiative to coordinate operations all over Afghanistan.
The Mujahideen should not become so overconfident as a result of their victory that they underestimate the difficulties ahead of them. Shortages of supplies and organizational difficulties should be addressed properly. If the Mujahideen choose several weak points of the enemy and attack them simultaneously, they can surely achieve their objectives.
Jimi'at believes that intensification of war is a must, in order to fulfill the Afghan people's reasonable demand that the Kabul regime be forced to transfer power to a representative body, as a first step towards establishment of a permanent government in Afghanistan. Without powerful military pressure neither the Soviets nor their puppet government will be ready to accept the transfer of power. The last two years' experiences have shown that the Mujahideen's military weakness has been what keeps Afghans from achieving self-determination.
The fall of Khost sent a clear message to Gorbachev that pouring food, fuel and arms into Kabul will not keep the regime in control of the situation. If the Soviets are interested in a stable Afghanistan having normal relations with its neighbors, they should not waste their resources in support of the doomed Kabul regime. Peace will not come to Afghanistan as long as the communists stay in power. Gorbachev must also realize that sending SCUD missiles to Kabul to be used against Afghans is unbefitting fcr a recent recipient of the Nobel peace prize. The world community should put pressure on Moscow to change its Afghan policy so that.Afghans can decide their own future -- something for 'which they have fought for more than a decade.
The Soviet Withdrawal from Afghanistan
Edited by Amin Saikal and William Maley
Cambridge University Press Price £6.95
The Soviet Withdrawal from Afghanistan is a collection of highly topical essay by nine teachers at universities, seven in Australia and two in the United States. Amin Saikal (the only Afghan of the nine) writes on the regional politics of the Afghan crisis. Saikal gives a clear overview of the interest and policies of the regional states, and is notably critical about India's policies followed over the issue of Afghan independence since 1979.
A chapter of Soviet domestic politics by TH Rigby starts with the premise that the withdrawal is unlikely to have any profound domestic effects in the Soviet Union. But Rigby goes on to say it might do exactly the opposite. The indirect impact could be "incalculable'’, given serious disorders in Central Asia, nationalist movements and economic unrest among workers elsewhere in the Soviet Union. All three, of course, are taking place now before amazed eyes.
Geoffrey Jukes, writing on the Soviet armed forces and the Afghan war, downplays the importance of the Soviet Union and its armed farces alike of the Afghan war. The actual decision to withdraw, maintains Jukes, was not prompted by military necessity, but by a political decision in Moscow. The Soviets' lack of success in the Afghan guerrilla war will probably increase the trend towards avoidance of Soviet involvement in regional conflicts.
The American anthropologist and long-term resident of Kabul, the late Louis Dupree, is also presented. His chapter raises ten possible political scenarios, ranging from lively to frankly improbable. Dupree's own conclusion is characteristically upbeat; "The Afghans will decide their own future; and outside interference will not be tolerated. Ask the Soviets."
The failure of the UN-sponsored Geneva accords to achieve their stated goals is the subject Of two incisive chapters. William Maley ' queries whether they were, indeed, die best ob-
Tum to page (7)