AFGHANews Vol 7, No 3, February 1,1991, page O
for Mujahideen parties or the UN.
•	Lack of trained teachers: There has been no good education inside Afghanistan for the last 12 years. Many of the teachers have only 10 to
1 years of education. Some educated teachers do jobs other than teaching. There is lack of educated persons in Afghanistan. In Panjshir, the Mujahideen do a lot to educate the teachers. They have build a special hall lor teachers* seminar in Rukha.
•	Lack of money: The Swedish Committee is one of the biggest organizations sponsoring more than 500 schools all over Afghanistan. But this is only a part the schools that need assistance. There are 64 schools in Panjshir alone. Out of them 16 are sup-x>rted by the Swedish Committee, some others , by other relief organizations and the rest by the Mujahideen themselves. In Panjshir, the salaries for teachers and schoolbooks donated by relief organizations are divided among all schools in the valley.
Money is also needed for teacher’s training programs and for building new schools. The Mujahideen should discuss the future of their schools and educational activities. There are increasing demand for new schools without any increase in foreign aid for education.
Lars Grahnstrdm is a Swedish freelance journalist who completed his fifth trip to Afghanistan this autumn to cover the war from the Mujahideen side.
Gulf conflict
from page (1)
tempt draw attention away from Pakistan's peace efforts launched by Nawaz Sharif seeking a solution through the OIC. Kabul Radio’s reporting of the Gulf war is different from Moscow Radio's. The regime paints a pro-Saddam picture oif the military operation.
The most interesting development related to the Gulf war is re-emergence of the worldwide anti-war movement This movement was very active during the Vietnam war. When Afghanistan was invaded by Soviet Union, the movement did not show any reaction When Afghans asked where was the anti-war movement, they were told that it was a 1960s phenomenon. This movement became active after the Allied forces launched air attacks against Iraq. When Iraq invaded Iran in 1979 and occupied Kuwait last summer the anti-war movement ignored them.
AFGHANews is a great help for us. Some of your articles are republished in our journal, Le Croissant We shall publish, Inshallah, Commander Ahmad Shah Masood's interview published in AFGHANews and perhaps also the communique of the Council of Commanders.
Mohammad R. Holican Port- Louis - Mauritius
Thank you very much for your news bulletin. It plays a vital role in providing information about the Afghan Jehad. We pray for your success.
Mohammad Iqba Arakan - Burma
I received the last two issues of AFGHANews. We deeply appreciate this service and will do our best to ze-rox these issues and circulate them to our Muslim brothers and sisters. It is very inspiring to read of the progress of your Jehad and to witness the slow but sure liberation of your country from the grip of communists.
Abdul Bari Pendleton, IN - USA
I receive AFGHANews regularly but I am often disappointed with what I read in it. I know that Mujahideen take money and arms from Americans to fight Russians. As an Arab and a Muslim, I advise Afghans to support Saddam Hussain. They need a strong man like Saddam to lead them.
Auzanna Atallah Newcastle, NSW- Australia
I enjoy reading AFGHANews. Some articles seem quite frank, admitting problems where problems exist There are major questions that remain, however. If problems of dissension continue within the resistance, how can they be solved? This must be openly addressed.
PaulOveby Portland, OR - U.S.A
I appreciate receiving AFGHANews. It is the most informative paper I read about Afghanistan. It is not hill of the propaganda and empty words that you see in some of the other party papers.
Lars Grahnstrom Soderhman - Sweden
Oh! CoveCy Afghanistan
Abd-er-Rahmane Thami
Flowers holding the white snow While a candle burns low.
It is cold! It is high!
Oh! lovely Afghanistan Eternal Beauty.
A dove flew to the top of the hill Above the cemetery.
Many children were at the graves Crying for their beloved dead. Suddenly a chill crawled up My spine and a river flowed from my tears.
Dawn in the wounded valley Children were crying and Their faces were covered with tears. They have lost many friends.
Killed by toy bombs sown by Soviet planes.
A doll! a toy!
Instead of making you happy They make you cry and die.
Let us pray Allah Akbar!
Let your children hear their cries.
As the night feU the darkness filled The sky and silence became the enemy of the night
Then, not silence, but detonations Wounding the beauty of the valley, detonations of mine explosions Killing children.
Martyrs!
Martyrs of the renewal of hope Their light shines now upon the darkness of the world.
Darkness of the fallen Soviet regime May your martyrdom not be in vain Allah Akbar!
( The poet, a Berber from North Africa, lives in Seattle, Washington.)
Courtesy: New Trend