BFGWflH HEMS VOL. 111, HO. 17,  1/9/1TO7.PHK  7
Moreover, even if they wanted to launch similiar wars elsewhere,/ the Russians would neither have enough personnel nor economic capabi1ities, wi th the blessings of God, we,have established so many bases that with the present number of enemy troops, it is impossible to position sufficient number of soldiers in each of our bases. You can see an indication of the enemy's failure in Panjshir in the fact that it has approached us several times (both Russians and their puppets) requesting that we hold talks with them on Panjshir. But we did not deem such talks in the interest of our Jihad, so we rejected their offers. For us it is much preferable that enemy troops are kept busy in Panjshir, and we carry out our activities freely elsewhere.
                   FROM THE DIARY OF JEHAD m
Our group had gone from Jegdalik to Gogaraanda to find and bury the bodies of Rahimullah Hafizl and Hashmatullah Noor Ebad who were martyred by mine explosions. On its way back, the group rested in a village at the outskirts of the Soroobi town. In the afternoon, the group came near the road to take a bus to Jegdalik.
Nadir's family lived in the village near the Soroobi town which was under the Russian and the puppet government's control. Nadir himself, who was 17 years old, had moved to Jegdalik to join the Mujahideen of Commander Anwar. He had come to visit his relatives on the occasion of Eid-e-Ramadhan.
Now, he also wanted to return to Jegdalik. *=-
Nadir was wearing the new clothes he had made on the occasion of Eid. He was happy he had seen his family. Moreover, he was witty by nature. Thus, he was laughing and Joking with Mujahideen who were waiting for the bus.
Nadir was very much fond of fighting the Russians. When the bus took too long to come, he started insisting on the commander of the group to go and launch an attack, on the enemy base in town. The commander kept refusing, however, because he did not have the permission of the general commander.
We wore sitting on a small mount near the road. Other members of the group were scattered in small groups on or along the road. Nadir was with us making the long waiting period bearable by his charming smiles and witty talks. Three minutes after he left us, we heard an explosion. We run to find hideouts because we thought we had come under bombardment from the nearby base.
Soon we learnt it was not a bombardment. Rather, this was what had happened: Nadir, wi t!h his enthusiasm for fighting, was playing with the rocket launcher. Suddenly the launcher fired by mistake. And.... it blew half of Nadir's head away. Two minutes after the explosion (only five minutes after he had left us> we heard Nadir was dead! (Do we realize how fragile our lives are?).
But the story is not finished yet. People informed Nadir's father, Haji Mohammad All, of his son's Maryrdora. He and some other relatives came. We all took the bodv to Jegdalik for
burial.