F-6
KfGgyj^HEyS______/Sht 2J i„92—-Z_________1-431986
                                                                      iS2S5§£5S5SI.S52i§J^£S
Cn 15th March the enemy wanted to send a big convoy to.Khanabad district and Talaqan city (the provincial capital of Takhar province). Mujahideen resisted well and all fought together. Fifty tanks and trucks viere destroyed and 250 soldiers were killed, Mil Mujahideen groups cooperated and made the enemy suffer. According to informed sources, the type of fighting, coordination between Mujahideen and and the scale of enemy losses were unprecedented in the area. Fighting ended around 23rd of March.
                                            PhRTY_N§WS
Prof,3.kabbani leader of Jaraiat Islami Afghanistan sent a message' of condolence to the foriegn minister of Sweden on the occasion of the death of Prime Minister Palme. He called Palme a leader who defended oppressed people.
Prof.B.Rabbani sent a congratulatory message to Jacques Chirac on the occasion of his appointment as the prime minister of France.
On March 11th, Prof.B.Mabbani met a delegation of German MFs who had come to Up-to-date themselves about the situation in Afghanistan.
They ware briefed about the situation inside and the general, military-political situation in and around Afghanistan.
    On March 21st, the first day of Afghan new year, 10,000 people marched .in the streets of Stockholm to protest against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The demonstration was sponsored by the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan and a large nuiaber of trade unions. Church organizations and political parties. The foriegn minister of.the Sweden spoke on the occasion. This shows a growing awareness about the just cause of the people of Afghanistan amongst the Swedish people.
    The late prime minister.of Sweden, Glaf -Palme, made an interview with "t.fghanistan-HYTT-1, the magazine; of the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan On Feb-7th, In this interview he expressed his concern about the suffering of the people of Afghanistan. He said that Soviet invasion of Afghanistan is a. clear violation of international laws. When he was asked why he does not take part in demonstrations against the Soviet .invasion when he took part in anti-America demonstrations against the the U.S America involvement in Vietnam. He said that now as a prime minister he has other opportunities to express his views.