AFGHANews Vol 7, No 18, September 15,1991, page ©
held in Teheran
. The second round of tripartite conference wais held on August 28 and 29 in Tehran with the participation of the Mujahideen, Pakistan and Iran delegations.
Afghan delegation was comprised of 30 people, including most of the Mujahideen leaders. Hezb Islami Hikmatyar, Hezb Islami Khalis and Ittihad of Prof. Sayyaf did not take part in the talks.
The first round of the tripartite talks were held in Islamabad one month ago. The purpose of these meetings are to find a consensus formula for the political solution of the Afghan problem.
The Islamabad meeting gave conditional support to the five-point UN peace plan. The declaration of Tehran reaffirmed support for the UN plan.
It was decided that a Mujahideen delegation should meet with the UN Secretary General and discuss with him the plan. The Mujahideen wants clarification about the intra Afghan dialogue and transitional administration envisaged in the plan. They neither want to talk with the Kabul regime nor take part in an administration in which Kabul is a part of.
The Mujahideen expressed their readiness for constructive talks with Moscow and hoped that the recent changes in the Soviet Union would help in bringing peace to Afghanistan.
The conference decided that a delegation of the Mujahideen to be sent to the UN General Assembly and to the OIC Summit in Dakar.
The conference established an ad hoc committee to prepare the agenda for the third round of talks which will held in Islamabad. No date has been fixed yet.
The participants believed that any solution of the Afghan problem should lead to the replacement of Kabul regime with an elected Islamic government acceptable to the people of Afghanistan.
The communique condemned the recent aerial bombing of the civilian targets by Kabul regime. The Mujahideen said that they would continue armed struggle against the Kabul regime until an acceptable solution was found to the Afghan problem.
Ali Akbar Velayati, the Foreign
Minster of Iran, Akram Zaki the General Secretary of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan and the Mujahideen leaders participating in the conference termed the outcome of the Tehran talks as positive.
Velayati and Zaki asked the Mujahideen to make use of the favorable international atmosphere for bringing peace to their country.
The participants of die conference held a meeting with President Rafsanjani. He asked the Mujahideen to sink their difference so that they can achieve total victory.
Akram Zaki told the conference that Saudi Arabia supported Pakistan efforts for finding a political solution to Afghan issue. He said the US also supported these efforts.
Afghanistan was a topic of discussion between Iranian leaders and the UN Secretary General who visited Tehran. A Mujahideen delegation met with the Secretary-General in Teheran and discussed with him the UN peace plan. The delegation included Pir Gailani and Prof. Mujaddidi.
The UN chief asked the Mujahideen leaders to refrain from launching attack on Kabul so that the chances of a peaceful solution are destroyed. Later, he flew to Saudi Arabia to discuss Afghanistan issue with king Fahd.
President Ghulam Ishaq Khan discussed Afghan issue with the Iranian leaders during his. four-day official visit to Tehran.
Despite optimism expressed by the participants of the tripartite conference, there are still major obstacle on its way. Some Mujahideen groups who have had very close relations with Pakistan and Saudi Arabia are not taking part in the talks. Without participation of all the Mujahideen parties adoption of a consensus formula becomes difficult
Zahir Shah has expressed reservation about outcome of tripartite conference because of the participation of Iran and Pakistan in it He believes that Afghans should be allowed to decide themselves.
There is a strong possibility that some prominent Afghan refugees living in the West will be invited in the coming session of the conference in Islamabad. Most of those living in West are sympathizer of of the forma’ king.
Turmoil in Kunar
He met with Mujahideen leaders including Hikmatyar and the new leader of Da’wa party, asking for a peaceful solution of Mujahideen differences. It was an attempt by*Saudi Arabia to dispel the impression that it was helping one Mujahideen party against another.
The situation in Kunar is calm but very tense. In a tribal society bitterness created by war cannot be forgotten quickly.a No single administration has been created in Kunar so far. Da'wa party has lost control of the main Kunar valley but still has presence in Pech valley.
Other Mujahideen groups demand the withdrawal of non-Kunari Mujahideen brought by Hezb to fight against Salafis. Indisciplined behavior by some victorious invaders has antagonized local people. A safe estimate indicates that 100 people have died in the recent fighting in Kunar.
The problems in Kunar ended relief operations and reconstruction work of the relief organizations. These organizations had opened their offices in Asadabad. The UN had chosen Kunar as safe heaven for the return of refugees. The fighting in Kunar will sup refugees from returning to Kunar. Relief organizations have said they will not return to the valley unless the safety of their workers and offices are guaranteed by the local Mujahideen.
Some people express worry that Hezb's 'victory' in Kunar might encourage that party to bid for regaining lost ground in other parts of Afghanistan.
The sad developments in Kunar has caused disappointment among the supporters of the Mujahideen and given a propaganda tool in the hand of the Kabul regime.
Help us publish AFGHANews!
Please send your donations to the following account number:
JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan