HFGHfiH NEHS VCL.111, HO. 10, 15/9/100V,PRCE 10
 one finds the most outspoken nationalists. Anti-Russian sen-riment is strong throughout the Muslim areas, whether in the Volga Tatar regoin, which was conquered by the Russians more ' than four centuries ago. or in Turkestan occupied only in the
 last century. Russians and Muslims almost never intermarry. Soviet Muslims, particularly intellectuals, show a passionate interest in recent Islamic publications, we scholars in the West have often witnessed our visiting Central Asian colleagues rushing to the book-stores and libraries to read the forbidden writing of Pakistani. Iranian, or Egyptian fundamental ists- -when they can slip the tight leash of their KGB guardians .
 For more than half a century. Moscow kept the Soviet Muslim * popul ati on, hei rs to an ancient and brilliant Irano-Turkic. culture. isolated from the rest of the Muslim world. But by invading Afghanistan, the Red Army itself lifted the iron Cur- -tain that has artificially isolated Soviet Tadzhiks. i:zbeks7 ~ and Turkomans from their brethren in Afghanistan and Iran. Soviet Muslims, who frequently sympathized with the Afghan Mujahideen, are no longer used, as combat soldiers, but thousands of Soviet Muslims remain in Afghanistan as workers, truck drivers, interpreters, etc. Moreover, thousands of Afghans have been sent to Soviet Central Asia as students, technicians, military personnel, and political delegates.
 In part because of this mingling of Soviet and Afghan Muslims, the new spirit of the Afghan Jihad is slowly but steadily spreading into Soviet Muslim terrritories. The war in Afghanistan is followed with an intense and passionate interest by nearly all Muslins in Central Asia, in the last two years, strong evidence, unreported in the world press, has emerged of a number of acts of solidarity between Central Asian Muslims and the Afghan resistance.
 After seven years of war, the effect the Afghan resistance is having on Central Asian Muslims may be summed up by what a Central Asian Intellecctual told me last.year while visiting Western Europe. This man. a hlgh-rinking Communist Party member, said, "The resistance of the Afghans is for us the first gleam of hope since the Russian conquest." The Red Army, presented by official propaganda as the beat in the world.laving cible and unconquerable. Is in fact unable. Inspite of Its crushi ng techni cal supr iori ty, to overcome the determined re-slstanceof poorly armed bandit of Mujahideen. The Russian soldier looks like a poor fighter; the officers seem worthless* the high command inept. The Impact of the stalemate in Afghanistan is. without exageration.comparable to the impact that the defeat of Russian armies in Manchuria in 1905 had on Polish, Finnish, Caucasian, and Tatar national-1iberation movements .
 Because of the successes of the Afghan resistance, Islam--which Soviet propaganda has portrayed as an out-dated medieval relic--now appears to be younger and more dynamic than aging, dusty, and bureaucratic Marxism Leninism. Tor the first time since the October Revolution,. Central Asian Muslims have rediscovered the Muslim wnmah. the "community of believers."
 They have discovered a new sense of kinship with the Afghans and, through them width the entire Muslim world.