AFGHANews Vol 8, No 7, April 1,1992, page ®
Editorial
An unprecedented victory
The recent victories of the Mujahideen in the north of Afghanistan tilted the military balance in favor of the resistance and improved the chances of the Kabul regime's overthrow in the near future.
Exploiting the differences between the regime and its militiamen, the Supervisory Council of Jami'at decided to launch attacks against the regime in Balkh, Samangan, Jawzjan and Kunduz provinces. As a result, the Mujahideen succeeded to liberate all districts of Balkh, Kholm District and part of Aibak in Samangan, Qali-i-Zal District in Kunduz and Faizabad sub-District in Jawzjan. The major victory of the Mujahideen came when Jami’at decided to enter Mazar, the second most important political and military center of the regime after Kabul.
. While the Mujahideen of Jami'at led these operations, the Mujahideen of Harakat-i-Inqilab of Mohammadi and Harakat-i-Islami of Mohsini also took part in them.
The militia forces of Rashid Dostum and Jafar Nadiri remained neutral in the Fighting between the regime forces and the Mujahideen. The decision to neutralized the militias without making any concession to them was a timely and wise move.
The liberation of Mazar from control of the regime was smooth with no arbitrary blood-letting and looting. The necessary measures were taken to insure the safety of the residents of Mazar.
The fall of Mazar dealt a severe blow to the prestige of the Kabul regime convincing many, at home and abroad, that its fall was imminent It proved that not only the regime was unable to win victories against the Mujahideen, it was also incapable of preventing its own disintegration after effective cut of foreign aid to it
The fall of Mazar prompted Najib to give an undertaking to the UN that he was ready to hand over all the state powers to an interim government formed through die UN process and was not insisting on his own participation in the peace talks. Without the setbacks in the north, Najib would have not been ready to make such a pledge. It proved correct an opinion expressed by the Mujahideen that military pressure on the regime would expedite the solution of Afghan problem.
Developments in the north also forced the UN to revise its peace formula and Benon Sevan has indicated that he wanted to hasten things by calling a bigger assembly of Afghans instead of going through a multi-stage peace process. This is a positive development in regard to the UN efforts because the multi-stage plan was,complicated, unpredictable and time-consuming.
The victories of the Mujahideen in the north raised the morale of the Afghan people at home and abroad. Afghan refugees all over the world tried hard to get the news of developments in Mazar. The positive reaction of all the refugees to the victories in the north showed the popularity of successful military operations against the regime. The victory also pleased die supporters of the Mujahideen , particularly, the Muslim supporters of Jehad, all over the world.
Developments in the north has made it extremely urgent that the Mujahideen leaders speed up their efforts for forming an alternative interim administration to replace the Kabul regime.
As a first step, Jami'at has proposed formation of a council of commanders of all the Mujahideen parties in the north to deal with the volatile situation in the area. Some leaders have reacted positively to the proposal and Jami'at hopes that the remaining leaders will do the same. Formation of a body representing all Mujahideen parties is necessary to coordinate military activities and put an end to the speculation about ethnic divisions in the area.
The communique signed by some Mujahideen commanders in Peshawar ac-

To page (8)
Zindajan
liberated
Zindajan, a district west of the city of Herat, has been liberated from control of the regime forces and its residences who had fled the town because of war have started to return.
The Kabul regime launched a massive attack on Zindajan last May to drive the Mujahideen out of the town. The regime failed to occupy Zindajan but the town was destroyed in fighting which lasted for ten months. More than 50,000 of its residence became refugees in Iran and^ other liberated districts of the province.
The last enemy post in Taraka, east of the town, was captured by the Mujahideen on March 1. The district is now out of the range of the regime artillery making it possible for the people to resume their normal life.
The returning refugees are facing danger of landmines, planted by regime. So far, 12 returning refugees have been killed by mines. The office of Ismail Khan in Pakistan has approached the UN demining agency for assistance. Pashtoon, the head of demining program in southwest Afghanistan, has shown readiness to send a demining team and necessary equipment to Herat The team is waiting for permission from the Iranian government for passage through Iran.
Haji Qari, the representative of Ismail Khan in Peshawar, said the Mujahideen needed assistance to help the rehabilitation of the returning refugees. They also want to reopen schools and clinics which were closed due to the offensive.
Zindajan was a flourishing town with schools, mosques and hospitals. The UN had opened an office there. Hie Kabul regime launched an offen sive to disturb peace in the district and deprive the resistance of a good administrative model.
The Mujahideen say that the situa tion in the city of Herat is not good. Prices of goods are very high and people feel insecure due to involvement of regime militiamen in robbery and kidnapping. Militiamen also fight each other. Herat airport has come under control of militiamen belonging to Daud faction. Lack of security forced the regime to move its civilian aircraft to Shindand air base in Farah Province Khaliqyar, the prime minister of the regime and resident of Herat, is trying hard to prevent repetition of develop^ merits in Mazar.