 AFGHAN NEWS' '              No, 7    '   1 4-4-1 985,           F-22 '
    — ...- — —i —                           .wwiiaw.a.m.riRaft.MM ■*»*•■■>«■>■•<■»•■«•■« ■»••■«••■•«■•■*■■■•
                                                                                «■ ' • ‘
                      .. ; THE -END _ 0F_A ^TRAI'TOR
 Ori 27th. of March Jurna Khan, the militia Commander for the puppet .’■.■> ... regime in Andarab was killed, Jurna was from Andarab , His brother
 Afbab Bahadur, , started to lead a group of Mujahideen against the...........
 Khalqi raglm^.in. 197?.«
 Arbab Bahadur was a brave man and was martyred in the same year.,
 Due to 'the' respect Afghans have for families they chose Juma Khan in his brother’s place. He proved to be a bad man, Khad began to influence him and he started to cooperate by delivering back a Soy- , , iet prisoner which the Mujahideen had captured. He also gave back two Khad agents who had escaped from prison in the Panjshir,..............
 While Mujahideen from the Panjshir were forced to get rid, of him, he went to North Salang and began to assist the Soviets,
 When the Soviets launched their seventh offensive against the Panj-shir, Juma led the invading forces and encouraged people and some Mujahideen to surrender. He then formed militia posts all over Andarab, After a few months the people realised that he was an agent of the Soviets and turned against him. Resistance took root and his militias started to join Mujahideen,
 Finally he= was killed On March 27th in Naw-Bahar village of Andarab, by a man whom he had appointed as the commander of Puli Hessar region of Andarab a few months ago.
 After Juma1s death, a big Soviet force went to Andarab to protect militia posts from Mujahideen attack and stop a possible mass-defection.
 This event is a great victory for Mujahideen and the people of Andarab because Juraa’s past terrorist actions had left fear in the mind of ordinary people and some mothers quietened their children by using his name.
 After Shiragha's death, Juma's death was a big loss for the invaders •
 Nqte % Andarab is a valley parallel to the Panjshir but in the North of the Hfndukush. It connects the Panjshir to the North -of the country, It is a district of Baghlan province, After a set back in the spring 1984, the resistance is gaining ground again and there is popular support for it.
 Soviets have a presence in the main valley in two places but the Mujahideen have control of the side valleys,
                           REPORT FROM ANDARAB
 1-4-1985                     '       '
 Commander Tawoos and six other Mujahideen were killed by a planted Khad agent. This agent , who was a militia of the puppet regime,....