     AFGHAN NEWS________XQLJL1_______NO. 19       1/10/1986    PAGE 9
    Afghan News believes that the situation In Herat has not improved but on the contrary it has worsened Successive offensives bring more death and destruction to the people there. We want to draw the attention of those who have the heart and the means to help.
                                                                   vjS?' ■
    Herat is an historical city and Allah has bestowed its people with th§ good leadership like Esmaeel Khan. The people of Herat has given great sacrafices to preserve their religion and freedom.
    After seven years of continious war against a super power the mujahideen and the people desperately need aid In the form of medicine, food, clothes etc. So far very little is done to help these brave people
    May Allah protect Herat from the red devils of communists.
                                 JAMI'AT OPENED OFFICE IN WASHINGTON
    Jami’at opened a public relation office in Washington last month. The gffice is headed by Eshan Jan Areef a veteran of the Islamic cause of Afghanistan.The office has started publishing a monthly paper called "Afghan Jehad News”.
    We hope the office will succeed in its aim of publicising the cause of Afghanistan,
                                               A WISE STEP
    The council of the North has decided to stop the flow of Refugees to outside the country. The decision went into effect Immediately.
    Mujahideen believe that the Soviet policy of depopulation of the country side is aimed at weakening the armed struggle.
    The main obstacle in the way of this decision is lack of resources to help the people who have lost every thing. There are more than 2 million internal refugees in Afghanistan who are in desperate need of humanitarian assistance. Emmergency aid programmes are the only way to keep the people who want to stay in their own country. Any help in this direction will foil the Soviets’ designs to depopulate the country side and weaken the resistance.
                                WHY DO THE LEAVE THEIR COUNTRY?
    it was about sunset one summer day of 1985 when we came accross a group of refugees, They were comming down from a pass of 16,000 foot, hight. Among them were very young children and very old men and women. We aske "Where are you from?", “We are from Kunduz” the reply came,the old man continued," the Soviets killed a large number of our people about 400 of them. We left our houses, we have walked one month, we can not walk faster. How many more days do we walk to reach Pakistan?"