AIGBANevc Volt Ho 15, July 1,1968, Page2
Faryab
THE Mujahideen from janti at, during 12 days of fighting with communist forces which started on May 24 , killed or wounded more than iOQ soldiers and captured SO others.
Twenty one soldiers from the puppet army also defected to the Mujahideen.
The Mujahideen were able to set two arms depots on fire and destroy eight AFCs and trucks*
The fighting started when joint Kussian-DRA forces launched an attack against the Mujahideen areas around the city of Maimana.
The enemy forces which were supported by the air force launched their attacks on the Mujahideen positions in Balooch, Qutoor and Deh Sayyed villages which are located one to five kilometers east and south of Maimana city,
The Mujahideen lost 25 persons and 30 others were injured. Fifteen villages were heavily damaged and more than 400 families become homeless due to the enemy air raids.
Herat
• GHOORYAN district came under the control of the Mujahideen from Jamiat when the puppet regime withdrew its forces on June ninth after a long siege by the Mujahideen.
Two soldiers were killed and seven others captured when the retreating enemy force came under Mujahideen attack. The enemy destroyed the historical fort which served as the district headquarters of the regime before leaving the area.
0 The Mujahideen launched a rocket attack on the Fourth Armored Division of the enemy destroying some equipment and killing seven soldiers on June 12.
On the same day the Mujahideen attacked the security posts of Shindand Airbase taking prisoner 12 soldiers and capturing six AK-47s,
BalfcJi
THE Mujahideen from jam!’at ted by Khalil Khan attacked communist posts in Mannoo 1 village, killing eight Soviet soldiers along with their mine-detecting dog on M ay 21.
The Mujahideen captured seven Kulinkov rifles from the enemy. One Mujahid was killed and five others injured during the operation.
Gulbshar
THE Mujahideen from jam i'at captured a DRA * garrison in Paymazar area of Gulbah&r at the mouth of Panjshir valley on June 23.
The attack was launched at one O'clock in the morning and the garrison was captured within one hour.
Forty two enemy soldiers were captured, eight killed and five others managed to escape.
The Mujahideen captured the following items:
•Two S2mm mortars
•One ZPU anti-aircraft gun
•One PK machine gun
•Five RPG-7 rocket launchers
•Fifty five Kalashinkow rifles
•Two R-105 wireless sets
•One thousand mortar shells
©Seventy thousand rounds of ammunition and ten tons of foodstuff.
Commander Mohammad Saeed from Shotol led the operation and the Mujahideen from Panjshir, Shotol and Gulbah&r participated in the attack.
One Mujahid was injured in the operation.
Salsng
IN three separate incidents in Salang valley the Mujahideen captured 54 Kaiashinfcov rifles, 2 PK machine guns and killed 25 soldiers and officers.
On June 10, a number of the puppet regime's militiamen defected to the Mujahideen in Liwan, aside valley between Jabal Saraj and Saiang tunnel, bringing with them 40 Kaieshinkov riffes and two PK machine guns.
On June 16, Soviet-DRA troops launched an attack against the Mujahideen in Liwan. The Mujahideen killed two Russian soldiers and one officer belonging to the puppet regime.
On June 20, the Mujahideen ambushed a convoy of the puppet, police killing two soldiers and two officers, seizing 14
News
from the battlefields