AFGHANews Vol8, No 6, March 15,1992, page ©
UN envoy begins second round of consultations
Benon Sevan, the UN special envoy on Afghanistan, has begun his second round of consultations with Mujahideen and the Kabul regime to finalize the list of 150 prominent Afghans who meet in late April in Geneva to discuss the political solution of the Afghan problem.
In Pakistan, he has been meeting with with Mujahideen leaders, commanders and Pakistani officials. In Kabul met with Najib and other rank/ ing officials of the regime.
Before leaving for Geneva at the end of his fust round of consultations, he said that he had met with more than 100 groups of Afghans ~ in Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran and Europe.
Besides meetings with the resistance and Kabul regime leaders, Sevan has met with tribal councils, commanders and prominent personalities. He has asked all of them the to give him the list of 150 men that they wanted to see in the proposed Ijlas (gathering).
Sevan will chose from among the lists delivered to him 150 names of non-controversial people. They will be the members of the gathering which is planned to be held by the end of April. The delegates chose draw up a list of 30 men who will called the working group. The job of the group is to propose a mechanism for the transfer of power and the composition of the interim administration.
From the Mujahideen parties, Pir Gailani, Prof. Mujaddidi and Mawlawi Nabi Mohmmadi have provided a joint list of 200 men to Sevan, the Kabul regime has also provide a list of its candidates.
Jami’at, Hezb of Hikmatyar, Hezb of Khalis and Itdhad of Prof. Sayyaf have not given the. lists asked by Sevan. Abdul Haq, a major commander of Hezb (Khalis group) has expressed sympathetic view to the UN formula and might have provided Sevan with the list of his candidates. According to some reports, Mr. Sevan has succeeded in receiving some list from the individ-tuU from those parties which do not support the UN formula.
The most important question being raised about the UN formula is the criteria which the UN has set for choosing the 150 representatives. Some resistance leaders said how they should support a process which they do not know enough about it
Sevan has said that the intra-Afghans dialogue will start even if some groups refuse to participate in it
and did not expect unanimity of view among all Afghan groups.
In order to stress the need for political solution, Sevan speaks about the danger of Afghanistan's disintegration on ethnic lines if a quick solution is not found to its problem. Seme Mujahideen leaders say the he is exaggerating about the danger of ethnic problems.
A new development in connection to the UN plan is the meeting between a delegation of the three moderate parties - NIFA, Jabha and Harakat - with the former king in Rome. The two sides agreed to coordinate their activities and expressed support to the UN formula.
The Mujahideen parties who appose the UN plan, in its present shape, are trying to coordinate their positions.
While Kabul give lip service to the UN formula, Sulaiman Laiq, a prominent leader of the Watan Party has said that it is natural for Najib to play a role during the transitional period. This position is in conflict with the UN formula which envisages total transfer of power to a transitional government formed by non-controversial Afghans.
Being worried about lack of consensus among the Mujahideen parties on the UN formula, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has been meeting the leaders of the resistance individually to persuade to go along with the UN peace formula which Pakistan supports. He has met, so far, with Gulbuddin Hikmatyar and Prof. Rabbani.
According to a BBC report, the representative of the three moderate parties met with Abdul Wakil, the foreign minister of the Kabul regime, in Geneva in mid January. This report is not confirmed by the parties involved.
iff
With Turkish Narration
"The story of victory" is a two-hour interesting documentary film that tells the story of Mujahideen victory in the north of Afghanistan. The price of the film, sent by air mail, is $25. Stocks are limited. To receive your copy write to: Mohammad Najib Koohsar MIDIA P.O.Box 297 Peshawar - Pakistan Phone: (0521) 44226,40768 Fax:(0521)42418
News from battlefields
From page (2)
and two tanks were destroyed when the Mujahideen attacked regime's position in Khachazi area of Raig District on March 7, Commander Lai Jan reported. Six Mujahideen were killed and 24 were inured in the fighting.
•	The Mujahideen of Jami'at fired rockets into regime Division No. 15 cm February 21, killing three enemy troops, destroying one ambulance, one truck and one multiple rocket launcher, Moalim Feda Mohammad reported.
■ One ZPU-1, two tanks and some ammunitions were destroyed when the Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked regime posts near Kandahar airport on March 6, Commander Lai Jan reported.
•	The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked an enemy post in Sersang area, near Kandahar airport on March 5, destroying four tanks, one ZPU-1 and killing a number of enemy troops. Four Mujahideen were killed and 17 sustained injuries in the fighting.
Prof. Rabbani attends graduation ceremony
Jami'at leader has participated in the annual graduation ceremony of Madrasa-i-Haqqania, a traditional religious school for higher studies, located outside Peshawar. In his speech. Prof. Rabbani praised the role of Haqqania mad rasa in spreading Islamic knowledge in Pakistan and Afghanistan.
The school was founded 40 years ago by late Mawlawi Abdul Haq. Since its establishment, around 8,000 ulamas have graduated from this madrasa, half whom came from Afghanistan.
Jalaluddin Haqqani, the famous Mujahideen commander in Paktia, is a graduate of this madrasa.
Help us publish AFGHANews!
Please send your donations to the following account number:
JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan