 I
 i
 {
 i
 1
 ;
 t
 I
 \
Ar&HANows Veil Ho 10, May 15,1998, Page 4
  AFGHANews
  PO Box 264, Peshaitw-Pakittan Tel; 41181
Editorial
                         Red judge senteces 14 , years eld t girl to 15 years tail
                                India faces dilemma in Afghanistan
   THE puppet regime in Kabul lias extended its hand to India for help but that country is not in a position to help survive the regime:
   Najib's visit to Delhi just ten days before the beginning of the Soviet troop withdrawal indicates the regime s worries about Its survival when it will be left to its fate after the Soviets leave and will have to face the Mujahideen forces,
   Najib's choice of India as the regime s main supporter after Soviet withdrawal goes dace to the cordial relationship between the puppet regime and India over the past nine years of the occupat ion of Afghanistan by the Soviet Union. Close cooperation between Moscow and Delhi put India on the side of the puppet regime.
   The other reason which brings Najib close to Rajiv is the friendly relationship between Pakistan and the Afghan Resistance. Pakistan, by providing shelter for three million Afghan refugees and actively supporting the Resistance earned an important political position in the world community which India resents.
   The third reason is the fear of India of an Islamic uprising by the Afghan nation. India with a large , but oppressed, Islamic population is worried about the effect of an Afghan victory over the Godless communists
   India's position towards the Afghans struggle for liberation has been a negative one. India as an active member of the non-aligned movement failed to criticize the Invasion of Afghanistan, a non-aligned country, by a super
   HAS1MA. aH year old girl, was sentenced to 15 years for an alleged killing of a Communist party activist.
   According to Farooq who was tried in the same court in 14»3, the judge asked | Hassima; “How long shall we i imprison you?', She replied: "As long as your regime lives!' The judge said:‘Is ten years enough?". Hassima replied: 'It is too long, your government will not last more than two years," The judge sentenced her to 15 years,
   Farooci recalls another sad I story he witnessed in jail. A lady came along with her five children to meet her husband in the prison and asked him to divorce her so that she could marry someone else to be able to feed her children, i She had nobody to support j her,
    Her husband. Fir Mohammad, who was a friend I of mine accepted bis wife's j demand and divorced her with tearful eyes." said Farooq,
   power,
      It kept its good relationship with the regime and provided it with ail kinds of economic and political support, India indulged in anti-Mujahideen propaganda and there were even reports of military cooperation between that country and the puppet regime in Kabul,
      The puppet regime which has developed a slave mentality cannot live without an outside master. After disappointment with the performance of the Red Army in combat against the Resistance and Che decision of the Soviets to withdraw their j troops, against the wishes of the puppet regime, Najib ■ extended his band to India.
      Najib used extremely nattering language in praise of India. He used his broken Urdu to impress his hosts. He used similar praise-words for India that he was using for Moscow, In Moscow he paid visits to Lenin s Moselum. in India he performed similar rituals to please the souls of Hindu leaders.
      There are serious doubts that India could do any thing
                                                                                                                 (see next page!
Mujahideen j commander visits Paris
ALLAUDDJN a Jamiat commander in Herat Province was invited to France to attend a photography exhibition on Herat which was opened on the fourth of May.
  The exhibition was orgamzd by Medicine de monde and AFRaNE, the two voluntary organizations working with the Mujahideen,