  AFGHAN NEWS____YQLJLI____NO, 24   15/12/1986___PAGE 4
                        NEWS FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS
                                                   AND ARAB
All the enemy posts in the Pashaii valley of Andarab have come under the control of the Mujahideen Pashaii is the valley which connects Andarab to Panjshir through the famous Khawak pass.
On October 25th when the Soviets captured Aadel Khan (Nephew of Juma Khan) because of incompentence in his duties as head of militia forces in Andarab most of the 300 Militia joined the Mujahideen along with their weapons
On 26/11/1986 the Soviets tried to re-capture the strategic Pul-i-Sar posisition, located in Pashaii. but faced a tough resistance from the Mujahideen The enemy retreated after losing 3 tanks ,two trucks and an unknown number of men
It should be mentioned that Andarab came under the control of the Soviets in 1984 but the resistance has re-gained ground in the past one and half years. Mujahideen have liberated most of the side valleys from the control of the Soviets and their puppets
                                 THE OFFENSIVE AGAINST SHEMALI ENDED
According to a report the enemy offensive against Shemali ended on November 26th Mujahideen fought well The enemy lost 3b tanks and trucks during the offensive 200 puppet troops and 80 Soviet soldiers were killed Mujahideen also suffered casualties the exact number of which is not availible yet
During the offensive in Shemali the Soviets also attacked the Salang and Shotol valleys. One enemy jet and one helicopter was hit by Mujahideen DShK and crushed in the areas under the control of the Mujahideen.
                    In a seperate clash in Feraj side valley of Panjshir 20 Soviet soldiers were killed on Nov.
16 th
                                                      SOROBf
The enemy attacked Jegdalek from the ground and air on Nov. 29th. The Mujahideen shot down an enemy jet with DShK. which crashed in the area controlled by the Mujahideen The pilot was killed Mujahideen couldnot identify the type of plane.
in ground clashes 15 militias of the enemy were killed. One Mujahid was martyred
The enemy purpose was to establish some permanent post in Jegdalek On December 2nd and enemy was forced to leave the area During the retreat, the enemy lost 8 tanks and trucks as a result of mine explosions The mines were planted by the Mujahideen
The report is signed by Commander Anwar