AFGHAN NEWS
No. 22
28-12-1 98,5
P-71
                    SIX YEARS_OF OCCUPATION
 The Red Army which was able to crush nationalist movements in Eastern Europe came to Afghanistan with the same type of expectations. After six years it is still bogged down in a war with no end in sight.
 Militarily, the Soviet Union is a super power equipped with the most sophisticated weapons. The Soviets have not hesitated to make use of any lethal weapons in Afghanistan if they have found it useful.
 They have been able to establish big air and ground bases and chains of security posts around the cities and along a few highways, but they have not solved the main problem of subjugating the Afghan people through the elimination of effective resistanceIn the year 1985 tho level of fighting was much higher and the Soviets had a . tough time which they are partially admitting,
 Soviet efforts to form a strong Communist govermnant, have failed so far. Ideologically the Communists are further behind than they were in 1978, when they took power. Factional ..fighting between Khalq and Parcham,.. to the lowest party level , has paralysed the puppet army and the Soviets have failed to bring them together. After six-years of efforts no major- section of Afghan society has accepted what they were offering. A few thousand militias and'Father- Land Front-members arachstbarogeneous elements which have joined the invaders because of threats, money or personal rivalries, not ideology. Soviet authori-ities are not happy about the performance of Red Army and are disappointed about the puppet army. After the Pushghoor victory in the Panjshir a Soviet advisor attacked the puppet regime's defence minister verbally and called him an "incompetent donkey". The minister's face became red, he looked at the ground and could not say anything.
 On the political ground the Soviets are making every effort to give the. puppet regime legal status. Some Jergas (traditional meeting of the elders) were convened and some local elections were announced.'
 All this was down to show that the situation io becoming normal and the puppet regime is gaining the support of the people.
 On the Geneva talks the Soviets try to make the puppet regime a party to speak for Afghanistan. Now the Soviets are insisting on direct talks with the puppet regime.
 If the resistance is not included in an agreement, no peace can he expected. Let us see what happens if the Mujahideen are not part of the, deal. The Soviets may agree on a timetable for the withdrawal of their forces in return for the recognition of the puppet regime, The Mujahideen who are well-armed and well-established and independent from outside influence, will continue to fight. If the Soviets are not participating in the war the Mujahideen would easily defeat the ..