flFBHRH HEU6 001. Ill, N0.M.7, 1/V 1987 PflOE g
 The argument that the ex-king will come as an individual not a ruler or on a temporaty basis is very naive in its nature. The king knows only how to rule not hoar to be ruled.
 If he wanted to participate as individual in the Jehad, the people would have seen this. The theory of temporary rule is a repetition of the past mistakes. Nader Khan when he took power from Habibullah Kalakaai told the people that his mission had come to an end and they can choose their own leader. His friends immediately raised their voices that you saved Afghanistan, you are the leader. He led Afghansitan for decades and his family was planning to remain in power for centuries.
 From all the above we can say that there is no constructive role for the ex-king to play.
 He belongs to the past, not to the future.
                                           WE ADMIT OUR MISTAKE:
                  SOVIET DEPUTY DBLBGATB TOTHB UN                           *
 A deputy Soviet delegate to the UN, Ronald Timerbaev, admitted in a conference in Columbia University on Friday, March 20. that the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan was a -mistake. This is the first time a Soviet official has ever admitted that their invasion has been a blunder. Admission of a mistake in not enough, mistakes need to be corrected.
 To correct what happened in Afghanistan, the Soviets do not need to go around the world and publicize their good intentions. They can correct their mistakes by stopping to kill the people of Afghanistan, withdrawing their forces and leaving the people of Afghanistan to decide their future. If they feel the need for a pre-arranged withdrawal they can talk to the representatives of the people of Afghanistan, the Alliance of the Mujahideen.
 Contrary to what they say not only have they not tried to correct their past mistakes they continue to follow the old lines. Fighting is intensifying, people are dying and thousands of Afghans continue to leave their country The Soviets demand a long timetable to withdraw their forces. Attempts are being made to impose the puppet regime through an international agreement, on the people of Afghanistan. All that indicates they are not ready to correct the mistake, what they are attepting is to minimize the costs of their mistake and deceive the world opinion.
                                    SOVIETS HELPED MUJAHIDEEN UNITY
 The announcement of a ceasefire and a National Reconciliation program by the puppets was designed to weaken the resistance but it worked the other way round. In the past seven years the resistance had little opportunity to play a political rule. The Soviet initiative gave the resistance that opportunity and the resistance used it wisely. The coalition of Afghan Mujahideen which is an umbrella organization faced a new situation when the Soviets announced the ceasefire but so far it has handled the situation wisely.
 The common stand of the Alliance, the support of the refugees and Mujahideen for their position gave new life to Unity. This must have been very dis-appointing for the Soviets and their friends and very encouraging for the friends of the people of Afghanistan.
 No doubt the resistance is now in a good position but there is a need for maintaining and even strenghlening the Unity further. This can be done through practical steps in military and political fields. So far the resistance leaders have played their game well but there is a oeed for increased effort to do a better job.
             NO PENCE WITHOUT THE RIGHT FOR RERL SELF-DETERHIHAT ION