 ft-
                       ft;ft-/V.'-V - /: ' \;V' :V
                          ■   -:';'v.-v-ft;' '.'■: ;';,;;'-;-/-::f■ V<V;7*-
     AFGHAN NEWS.        VPU  H  ...  NO, 13__________Uh*rl?86   ftfe&

     if the regime starts hilling and massacring, as I am sure they will, who will stop it. I am also sure that the Mtijahideen will not compromise but will continue to fight (who can accept some one who is not part of the agreement to abide by it). What will the Soviets do then? Will they stop pulling out their troops or if they see their puppets are in real danger would not they re-invade to rescue them?. If they did, what would be the world's~reaction?. What happens to all one-sided Soviet-imposed treaties signed between the puppet regime and their Masters ?. They have signed territorial concessions and mutual defence treaties, After the so-called peace agreement in Geneva all these treaties take a legal form and the Soviets will have a free hand to deal w$,th the Resistance.
        Because of all these concerns the Resistance believes that these present proximity talks will not lead to peace but to more complicated problems. If the Soviets are interested in peace they should end the war which they have brought^ The key to any solution is in the hands of the Soviets unless they decide to solve the problem no peace will come and the hard fact at the moment is that they have not decided to solve the problem, but to win through military means or deceitful policy
  f
\
.1       Terrorism is a problem of today's world and some terrorist come
     from the Middle Bast. This gives an opportunity fpr some to attack not only muslims but Islam. The Afghan cause is some how suffering from this ,,
        Terrorism is a problem. It is a global problem and can not be limi-ted to one area. Terrorists come from all sorts of back-grounds and are not confined to one race or religion. While it is right to fight against   j
     them by proper means one can see that such a war is not limited to the individual responsible for terrorist action. The ill-feeling generated by terrorist actions is against the terrorist's fellow countrymen.
        Middle Bast is in turmoil. Several wars have been fought there and still peace has not been achieved . Big massacres have taken place there v« with the support of one state or another. Because of all this it is an 4 area where terrorism can be expected .
        We Muslims completely reject any type of violence in which innocent „ oeoole are involved. We condemn individual terrorist actions and state-sponsored terrorism, be it of xvhatever political complexion.
        The problem is that so-called anti-terrorist propaganda in the West is not limited to terrorists.Their race and religion is condemned at the same time. In the West when somebody commits a crime he himself is an individual while an act of terrorism from an individual from the Middle East is attributed to Arabs and Islam. Due to lack of knowledge of Islam all this propaganda has negative effect on the Western mind