 AFGHAN NEWS             No. 1            1-2-1985         P-7
     The house to house search has been one of the main tactics of the Soviet and Karmal soldiers since the communist take over in 1978* The most brutal part of this tactic is that when they come to search Mujahideen they kill old men and women including their children because s
   (a) they can not escape while the enemy is searching the area.
   (b)   they either do not show them to the enemy or do not know their hideouts. The. Karmal-Russian forces, while using this tactic are not just killing innocent civilians but also looting their properties , burning their remaining possessions and sometimes planting anti-personnel mines, toy mines and laying booby traps in order to inflict more losses when the civilians return home.
                          WARDAK__ PROVINCE
     Wardak is a province situated in the. central part of Afghanistan, neighbouring Logar, Maidan, Ghazni and Samian .Most of its civilians are still living in the province not in Pakistan or Iran. This is important because s
    (a) Kabul-Kandahar government supply route- is crossing it,
    (b)    it is a province through which Mujahideen of the central and northern parts of Afghanistan are taking their supplies.
    According to a report from Wardak when government military officers and civil servants were celebrating their fifth anniversary of the Soviet invasion at Saidabad district in the eve of 27th.Dec , Mujahideen attacked and inflicted heavy losses on them.
     The report says that as a result of this operation more than 6 government servants including one or two officers were killed and 2 from Mujahid side were reportedly martyred.
     According to the same report, written On Jan.11.84, Soviet-Kar-mal f orces air raided a~ village of the same area namely Hassan Bik village On Jan.10.8^ for the 17th time since March 198^.
     The reports add that the air raid which lasted for more than two hours On Wednesday resulted in the total destruction of a mosque In whi/ch' fourty children were studying no one survived. These innocent children were aged from five to eleven. This catastrophe also resulted in the death of twenty young and old men and women of the area and the destruction of about 15 houses.
     It is not the first time that the Russians have committed such forms of brutality and barbarism, since 1980, they have regularly and delibrately strafed thousands of houses and killed thousands of the innocent civilians in indiscriminate attacks. The scorched-earth is often used to forcefully subjugate or drive civilians out of Afghanistan.