RFBHFM HEUS VOL.111, HO,10,           15/5/l9e?,PflOE 7
Mujahideen Sometimes Mujahideen let the roads remain open in exchange for having permission to confiscate the enemy goods. Both sides have their ovn compelling reasons for such an unspoken agreement.
Sometimes due to the carelessness of the Mujahideen the property of private merchants are confiscated. In these cases. Mujahideen have offered compensation with apologies. The situation becomes complicated when the puppets try to smuggle their goods in disguise of the private sector and some money-loving merchants keep silent about it.
Roads which are controlled by the Mujahideen are usually direct-roads connecting different parts of the country side Some of the trucks used on the roads in the liberated areas are captured from the enemy during the operations and some others belong to the individuals Captured trucks operate only in the liberated towns while private trucks can travel to the communist controlled cities as well. It should be« mentioned that in some flat areas of the country it is possible to travel hundreds of miles by road without facing the enemy presence. Traffic on the liberated areas is a special target of Soviet gunships As a result of such attacks hundreds of innocent people have lost their lives so far. To avoid air strikes, the people in the liberated areas travel by road during the night
The above explanation shows how heavily the Soviets and the puppet regime rely on road transportation. They not only have to supply their army units, but bring essential commodities to the cities under their control. Transportation is a weak point for the enemy which can be exploited by the resistance An ordinary road block for one or two days creates tremendous economic, military and political problems for the Soviets and their puppets On the other hand. Mujahideen dependence on road transportation is minimum and has been replaced to a large extent by animal transportation
SHAME OR PRIDE
Gorbachev who was talking to the Communist Youth Congress in Moscow in the middle of April said that he was proud of the courage of the Soviets Soldiers who bad gained experience in Afghanistan
What the Soviets do in Afghanistan is not something to be proud of. They are fighting a classic colonial war Like any other aggressor, they are committing atrocities against the local population and violating all the moral and humanitarian codes.
 r
We do not know how the Soviet leaders could be proud of what their soldiers do in Afghanistan. As a result of seven years of Red army atrocities, half a million Afghan people have died, 5 million have became refugees, T)V, of all the villages and towns have been destroyed and the whole Afghan Nation is facing genocide.
The damage which the Soviet army has inflicted on the cultural side of Afghan life is also enormous The Sovietization program of the Soviet invaders has posed a real threat to the cultural identity of this Islamic and non-aligned nation
The above deeds deserve shame not pride From a purely military point view, what the Soviets have achieved in Afghanistan is not significant at all. The strongest army of the world — with a history of occupation of other countries in a matter of hours and the suppression of national movements in the invaded countries — has failed to achieve its military aims in a poor country like Afghanistan in seven full years Hundreds of Jets -and Helicopters, thousands of APCs. tanks and other AFVs; with more than 150,000 * soldiers were deployed against ill-armed Afghans, What are the achievements? The Soviets were dreaming of a quick victory which never materialized It is indeed a big defeat for the proud army of a super-power and should be very demoralizing for their personnel in Afghanistan .
This war has inflicted irreparable damage to the prestige of communist ideology. The sophisticated planes of Communists are being used to destroy the mud-houses of Afghan