nrnttmi news rn.iu, no. 4, is/zmoa, sFiirk 5
 people has not been one of there. The conflict in Afghanistan is normally presented in terms of superpower politics, arms supplies, war footage, bickering resistance groups and stalled peace talks. The sheer scale of human suffering and the near-total disruption of Afghan society have been largely overlooked.
 About the scale of the tragedy the book; writes:
 The conflict in Afghanistan, now entering its ninth year, has created the largest-scale human tragedy in the world today.
 Afghans make up two-fifths of the world's total refugee population. There are over 5 motion Afghan refugees in Pakistan and Iran, and tens of thousands in exile elsewhere. Perhaps 3 million more have been displaced within Afghanistan, forced to move to the towns or to safer parts of the countryside.
 This means that around half the country's entire population - 15*5 million at the end of the 1970s, according to government figures -has been uprooted.
 Around a million people are thought to have died in the conflict. Tens of thousands of women have been widowed and children orphaned. Countless numbers of people have been crippled or maimed, have been imprisoned or have disappeared.
 The book goes further to write about the way of life of afghans in the war torn country:
 Many people left inside Afghanistan are worse off than those who have taken refuge abroad. Health, education and other basic services no longer exist in the greater part of the country now outside government control.
 There is virtually no prospect of relief or me.dical attention. The collapse of government health services, including disease control programs, has led to a resurgence of tuberculosis, malaria and measles, made worse by malnutrition. Infant mortality rates and other health indicators have worsened dramatically.
 People forced to I ale refuge in the mountains are often in the worst position. The i.o is less risk of bombardment, but living is precarious with little cultivable land, no irrigation, very limited pasture, scant fuel and a harsh climate. Many families have to live in caves, some even in the open. Isolation from whatever trade routes or bfuams may still be operating means there is little prospect of buying goods, nor is there the cash to buy them.
 Those who have taken refuge in neighboring villages or valleys face the problem of living on other people's hospitality: strain on scarce resources, no means of generating their own income, and ever accumulating debt.
 bands of orphans and children separated from their parents have been reported eking out a living in the valleys by begging and stealing. This is a disturbing measure of the social disruption inside Afghanistan. Before the war such children would have been cared for by the extended family or community.
 Bad though conditions are in many places, especially in the main combat zones, they are not uniform throughout the country. In some