		Ja c a /f—ic i non 	c
iUMlUVlVTTO T j) iYMUVI1 AJj }^ag^ ^		
W/w is who in the Mujc Ghulam Moham Ghulam Mohammad Aryanpoor a soft spoken educated commander was bom 42 years ago in the village of Kangoorchi in Keshm district of Badakhshan province. His father,Usta Karim, was a cobbler who was keen enough to send Aryanpoor to the school. Before going to primary school, Aryanpoor was sent to the mosque to learn Quran and basics of Islam. Aryanpoor completed his primary and middle school in the Keshm and went to Kabul when he was about 20 years old to study in Darulmualemeen (Teachers Training Institute). "He was the most hard working and talented student. He scored the highest marks and was always getting first division in his class." said his representative Abdul Mabood in Peshawar. " This was that time when he got involved in the politics . He met a lot of students from/different parts of Afghanistan. That was the time when communists were active at the university and in the institution where Aryanpoor was studying." said one of his friend now living in Pakistan. _ "Aryanpoor was closely studying the political situation and its future currents in Kabul. He consciously became part of the anti-communist Muslim students who actively worked amongst the intellectual circles in the Kabul University and other educational institutions." said his representative. He met for the first time Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, Omar Shaheed and Niazi. Aryanpoor stayed about three years in Kabul to complete his studies and in 1972 was appointed a teacher in Keshm district in the same high school which he had studied in. For five years he taught different subjects. Besides being a teacher, Aryanpoor was the leader of those students and teachers who were aeainst communism and communists' regional-ist ideas, such as 'Setam Milli' party. Every day one could see Aryanpoor under the shadow of this or that mulberry tree, talking to his students about the danger of communism. He also criticized the government for allowing communists to work openly in an Islamic country. In 1971, Aryanpoor led a large demonstration, for the first time in Keshm district, to condemn communists for being the agents of Moscow and warned the government and the people of the future dangers of communists' activities. He led another demonstration in Keshm in 1973 to protest against presi-	xhideen mad Aryanpoor dent Daud's regime for allowing the communists to work freely and imprisoning Muslim activists . It was 1977 that Daud sent Aryanpoor along with other Muslim activists such as Salahuddin, Nooruddin and Abdul Mabood behind the bars in Faizabad, the capital of Badakhshan. He was released after eight months. He resumed teaching in a primary school in Keshm . After ten months he was transferred to a remote primary school in Ishkashem district along the Soviet border. "It was a punishment for him because he was always closely watched by the government agents and was not allowed to go out of that area without government permission." said Abdul Mabood. Since he remained active, the government imprisoned him again. He served some times in Faizabad Jail and later was sent to Kabul Puli Charkhi prison by the Taraki regime. When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, they released some prisoners including Aryanpoor. Aryanpoor went to Badakhshan and joined the Mujahideen. He established his base in the mountains of Keshm. He was called at that time Ustad Aryanpoor. He was a committed anti-communism who wanted to organize the people to neutralize the communists' activities. "Even in the prison of Puli Charkhi, Aryanpoor organized some of the prisoners to act against the iegime.nsaid one of his friend. Keshm is one of the strategic, mountainous districts of Badakhshan. In a very short time Aryanpoor became	known as the commander of Keshm. He organized his Mujahideen and established a civil administration to help the civilian population. Except for the city, he liberated 90% of Keshm in 1985. When he had organized Keshm valley, he was contacted by Commander Masood and became one of the founders of the Supervisory Council. His group, participated in the operations against the garrisons namely Farkhar, Kalafgan, Nahrin and Kuran-Munjan. His Mujahideen liberated the city of Keshm in August of 1988. Aryanpoor took control of the city and ran the administration of the fallen city through committees. He established about 37 primary schools and some Madrasas in Keshm valley. He opened schools for girls and boys . His medical clinics helped the civilian population beyond their expectations. His judicial committee was unique in the province. He helped the civilians to rebuild their bombed irrigation system. He also built new water channels. Commander Aryanpoor conducts a simple life, speaks slowly, answers the questions in the shortest possible sentences. He reads and writes a lot. He wants his Mujahideen to be ardent Muslims, brave fighters, honest servants of the people. No one can cultivate poppy and hashish in area under his control. He was die first commander to ban smoking cigarettes in Keshm. He is respected as a teacher, loved as an elder brother and taken as a serious commander by his Mujahideen and people. He has lost his son, his mother and many other close relatives in the war against the Soviets. Com. Masood is one of his admirers.
	Lithuanians praise The seventh Lithuanian world congress convened in Toronto, Canada on February 16 has congratulated Afghan freedom fighters for their victory. The congress, in which elected representatives of Lithuanian communities from all over the world participated, adopted a message to the Mujahideen on the occasion of their splendid victory to force the Soviet aggressors out of Afghanistan. The message said that Afghans have shattered the myth of the invincibility of the Soviet Army. "We hope that the withdrawal of the Soviet army from	Afghans' victory Afghanistan marks the beginning of the end of the atheistic Soviet empire based on coercion and national oppression. We hope that sooner or later it will lave to withdraw from other captive countries including Lithuania which it has occupied since 1940. "The example of your heroic resistance against an invading superpower, amazing love of freedom and unshakable faith of the Afghan people will always inspire all those who fight for freedom. Glory to you the heroic Mujahideen of Afghanistan and eternal glory to your comrades who fell in combat in the field of battle", the message reads.