AFGHANews Vol 8, Nos 21 & 22, November 15, 1992, page Q
Iran helps Kabul in banking field
Ghulam Mohammad Yeilaqi, the Governor of Afghan Central Bank, met with his Iranian counterpart, Mohammad Husain Adeli, on October 25 and discussed with him expansion of bilateral banking relations.
Yeilaqi expressed interest in establishing banking relations with Iran.
Outlining objectives of Islamic banking system, Adeli declared Teheran's readiness to establish financial and banking cooperation with Kabul.
Afghan trade officials were also present in the meeting.
Yeilaqi described his talks with Iran's banking and economic officials as "positive". He added that according to agreements reached, personnel of the
Afghan banks will be trained in Iran.
In continuation of Iran's relief aid to the Afghan people, three C-130 planes carrying relief aid landed on October 12 at Kabul International airport
The aid, including SO tonnes of foodstuff and medicine, was handed to the Afghan Islamic government
Iran has sent more than 1300 tons of foodstuff to Afghanistan by 90 C-130 planes over the past six months, in addition to other aid despatched to western provinces of Afghanistan by land.
The Islamic Republic of Iran donated radio equipment worth of $100,000 to Afghan Radio and TV on October 25. The package included some books and films for TV use.
Saudi opens its embassy in Kabul
Saudi Arabia las resumed diplomatic relations with the Islamic State of Afghanistan. General Mohammad A1 Otba, the Saudi ambassador, reached Kabul by road via Peshawar on October 3. On the way to Kabul, Otba met with Hikmatyar in Soroobi.
Saudi Arabia cut its diplomatic relationship with Afghanistan in 1979
US war-wounded project completed
The American defence department has completed the project for the treatment of war-wounded Afghans, whose treatment was not possible in Pakistan.
Under the Afghan-war-wounded transportation and rehabilitation program, the US defence department provided treatment to some 1,200 critically injured Afghan young, old, women and children from March 1986 until 1992.	.	.	'
Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Egypt, Fiance, Germany, Greece. Ireland, Italy, . Japan, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Great Britain cooperated in implementation of the program.
■ Majority qf critically injured Afghan peoplf, mostly young, were airlifted to sixteen countries of the world in the planes of American air farce from Pakistan for treatment purpose.
when the communists took power in Kabul.
Riyadh officially recognized the defunct interim government of the Mujahideen. There is a strong possibility that Afghanistan embassy in Saudi will be opened in the near future. These developments can be described as a major political achievements by the Islamic State and a sign of restoration of stability in the country.
A joint delegation of the ministry of defense and interior, headed by interior minister Eng. Ahmad Shah, left for Saudi Arabia in mid October.
Mohammad Younus Qanuni, the chairman of political affairs of defense ministry who was also a member of the delegation, said that the Afghan delegation held meeting with King Fahd, Defense Minister Amir Sultan, Turki Al-Faisal and other ranking Saudi officials.
The Afghan side asked the Saudi government to the reconstruction of the country. They also asked for resumption of diplomatic ties between the two countries. The Saudi side showed its readiness for assistance and agreed to open its embassy in Kabul.
A Saudi delegation headed by Abdullah Naeem reached Kabul on October 27. The delegation held talks with officials of the Islamic State to seek ways for assistance of that country to the people of Afghanistan.
The Saudi delegation promised to provide assistance for re-construction of highways, rehabilitation of Kabul University and extend help in other fields.
Refugees return despite snowfall
Afghan refugees in Pakistan continue to return to Afghanistan despite the cold climate.
The United	Nations	High
Commission for Refugees has monitored an average of 1,200 individuals crossing into Afghanistan daily from the North West Frontier Provicne, and 420 individuals	crossing	from
Baluchistan..
The repatriation of over one million1 Afghan refugees has lessened burden on Pakistan budget, Rustam Shah, the commissioner for Afghan refugees Affairs in Pakistan, said in interview with VOA.
He said during the past ten years Pakistan provided more than 700,000 tonnes of wheat to the refugees from its own reserves. Although, the UN and other world aid agencies extended assistance to the refugees, Pakistan was also compelled to meet some of their other requirements from its own budget.
Rustam Shah said now Pakistan is in a better position because a large number of refugees have returned to their homeland. During the current and next years Pakistan would not be compelled to provide wheat to the refugees from its own stores because the foodstuff being provided by foreign aid agencies may be sufficient to the refugees requirements, he said.
The mother and sister of the former ruler of Afghanistan Dr. Najibullah are on a visit to Madian (Swat) nowadays.The family met with Khan Abdul Wali Khan and Begum Nasim Wali Khan, ANPs parliamentary leader in the provincial assembly in Peshawar recently. They may settle in Peshawar under protection of Wali Khan.
Help us publish AFGHANews!
Please send your donations to:
Account No. 55008 ‘ Bank Millie Afghan Wazir Akber Khan Br. KABUL-AFGHANISTAN