_	AFGHANews	Vol	8,	No 13, July 1, 1992, page O
to Kabul. If you arc nol in favor of mil- leaders lhal the problem was solved, toriously while chaining Allah-o-Akbar ilary action, you should not have sent Prof. Rabbani had told.some of my col- (God is Great), your forces to some of these arcas.Thc leagues (hat a Jami’at government was	You know	that militias arc in con-
forces stationed in Khwaja Rawash air- in power in Kabul.	trol of Kabul airport. You arc present
port, in Kabul garrison, in posts north Masood: I know nothing about the there but the control is in their hands, of Kabul and posts towards Logar arc meeting you have mentioned. You can In such circumstances I feel the need supporters of Babrak Karmal and have ask Prof. Sayyaf and Prof. Mujaddidi that the Mujahideen should enter Kabul been deployed to impose his about what I told you. I told those lead- by force. But, our purpose is nol to conditions.	. „	ers about my talks with Wakil. I in- form Hc/.b government in Kabul. Our
If the Mujahideen government is formed them about the regime decision aim is that the power should be irans-acccplcd today, militia forces arc evac- that it was prepared to transfer power to ferred to a unanimously agreed govem-uated from Kabul and Mujahideen the Mujahideen. I did not ask for any ment or to a council of commanders government has taken charge of gov- position for myself, or a special conccs- from around Kabul, emment in Kabul, we do not see a need sion for Jami’at. Any sensible person Masood: The entry of armed .for launching attack on Kabul.	knows that different parties have taken Mujahideen into Kabul after the rc-
Masood: I do not deny that some part in Jehad and they have a right to gime’s announcement that it was ready . of my forces have been deployed in participate in decisions concerning the to accept Mujahideen government is some areas of Kabul. Our forces arc future of their country.	not a great honor and achievement. It
stationed inr Khwaja Rawash airport. If Hikmatyar:	Brother Masood! wilt ercate a chaotic situation in Kabul,
the situation changes we will have to Kabul is still controlled by Nabi Azimi Why do not you form your government lakcfunhcr action.	and it is not in the hands of the and then enter Kabul while chanting
When I informed the leaders that Mujahideen. As long as these-people Allah-o-Akbar. The people of Kabul the regime was ready to accept the are in control, there is no reason for the will greet you as victors.
Mujahideen government and 1 did hot Mujahideen to stop fighting and you 'Hikmatyar: You have to talk to announce formation of a government, I should not be opposed to the Professor Rabbani about it. Tell him - was not planning a conspiracy. I left Mujahideen operations against them. not; to seek concessions for Jami'at. If everything to you, the leaders, and A Jami'at government has not been Prof^. Rabbani agrees to the formation waited for your decision. Despite all formed in Kabul yet. Every decision of anintcrim government which is ac-this, operations against Kabul started made in Kabul should be done with the cepjtabte: to all Mujahideen; -power is from four directions. When I saw that consent of other Mujahideen parties, transferred to this government, and the situation in Kabul was dctcriorat- We have no objection to a Jami’at gov- elections are held after six months, the ing and that it was taking such a course -eminent. We feel obliged to take arms, problem will be solved and there will that correcting it would have been im- for the conquest vpf Kabul and forma- be no heed for attack on Kabul, possible, I was forced to send some of tionbfaMujah^ government and Masood: Is Prof. Rabbani opposed my forces.	you; should not Consider an attack on to an interim government?
1 am not asking for special conccs- Kabul (io be) against yourself. The tea- . jHikmatyar: He might agree in sions for Jami'at and the Supervisory son forattack will disappear whenpow- wordsbiht in reality the government has Council. The government has an-^_ brisi^	Mujahideen.	nertbeenforrned.
nounccd its readiness to accept the : Masood: tdo not claim that the ^Masood: I assure you if Prof. Mujahideen's government. They have government is in the hands of Jami'at. Rabbani docs not accept formation of placed no conditions'. If they do, you It is still in'the .hand of Watan Parly, an. interim government, we will put and 1 will take jpint action against But 1 want to repeal this fact: the re- pressure on him so that a government lhCfrii until they accept; all the condi- gimewas ready to transfer, power to the acceptable ip all Mujahideen is formed, tibps :of the Mujahideen, If they are Mujahideen unconditionally. As long Hikmatyar: When? We do not ready to accept all conditions of the as they express their readiness to trans- have a lot of time. Perhaps an an-Miijahideen, what isr the ; need for fer power lo the Mujahideen, is there nouncbncbi be made in Kabul this eve-taunphing an attack on Kabul?	any need for aimed action for taking ning and in that ease we have to be pre-
Hikmatyar: In la meeting in power in Kabul? Is there need to take pared for it. We have proposed a plan : Pakistan after the recent developments power by force from people who have and. pur plan is not. accepted, we will in Kabul, Prof. Rabbainf said that the ; surrendered? The problein is between begin: pur military operation against prpbkcm was solved tand an Islamic ^ leaders, that you cannot agree K^l, If this not done today, perhaps council had been forn^ in Kabul. He with each otiier. 'Form; a government we wiji not have time tomorrow, told the leaders that they were wasting and if the rulers ^ Kabul did not accept Masood: What should be done their time about formation of an inter- it, we will launch joint attacks against today?
im government and there was no need them.	Hikihatyar: Agreement on forma-
for talks about it After two hours, it Hikmatyar: Jami'at can adopt tion of an interim government There became known that Nabi Azimi and such a policy and say that operation on are many proposals on the table. If they his friends had taken -power in Kabul. Kabul is not correct and other agree on any of these proposals we sup-^ Prof. Rabbani spoke in such a way as Mujahideen should not enter into port it.
if Jami’at government was formed in Kabul. But, as an independent party, Masood: That is good. If Jami'at Kabul. From your talks, I feel that you we can choose another policy. We pre- wanted to form its own government in consider an attack on Kabul as an at- fer to enter into Kabul victoriously. Our Kabul (here was no need to wait so lack oh yourself. Instead of reaching an Mujahideen's entry into Kabul docs not long and inform the leaders about the agreement with Nabi Azimi,; we should mean bloodshed. We do not want histo- details of developments. Wailing and have reached an agreement among our- ry to record that the Mujahideen could trying to convince others is the best -	Individual decisions .and ignore not liberated Kabul and their^issue was way forformation of an interim governing	have	dangerous	consc-	solved through die UN. I want that his- ment. I am sure that Prof Rabbani has
Qtieriefcs. What do you think if the'■	should rccord ihai the Mujahideen ' _	/o\
leader of a party comes and tells other ethered Kabul from four directions vie-	^ 0	'W