AFGHANews Vol 5, No 4, February 15,1989, page 4
Editorial
Food aid to cities should not prolong war
FOOD shortages in Afghanistan are a creation of war. In the past ten years the rural areas were the most affected by food shortages. Food shortages were a major factor in forcing the population to became refugees.
Recently this problem has struck the cities, especially Kabul the capital of the country.
The people who live in Kabul are mainly supporters of the resistance who have been opposing the Soviet invasion by one way or the other. Among them are elderly, children and women who deserve sympathy.
But the cities are also under the control of the regime and Kabul is the center of the political and military organizations of the regime, In these cities, thousands of criminals, like KHAD agents, members of PDPA and units of the puppet army, are living.
The problem has two dimensions: humanitarian and military.
As far as the humanitarian aspect of the problem is concerned the Mujahideen must do everything possible to alleviate the suffering of the ordinary people and the vulnerable groups in the cities.
An example was set by sending food stuffs to the inhabitants of Jalalabad and its surrounding areas.
The military objective of the resistance is to overthrow the communist regime in the shortest possible time.Cutting the communication lines of the enemy is the most effective way to bring the war to a quick end. If the enemy cannot feed its army and provide fuel for its vehicles the military machine of the enemy comes to a stand still.
If the Mujahideen do not make use of this tactic they will be forced to launch direct attacks against the city which will result in killing of thousands of people.
One point must be bom in mind, that is the irreconcilable nature of the two sides in the conflict Since political means have not worked to find a solution to the problem and the Soviets are not ready to abstain from supporting the puppet regime, military confrontation is inevitable.
On the other hand, if victory is not achieved in a relatively short period of time, the problem could become more complicated with new dimensions. It is necessary for the Mujahideen to act quickly and decisively to end the war. Therefore, there is a need for a balanced policy to take care of both aspects of the problem.
The Mujahideen parties should adopt a policy to win the war in a short period of time but at the same time pay attention to the basic needs of the people who are sympathetic to the cause.
The communist regime in Kabul, playing on the good feeling of the world community, asked for international assistance for the needy people in the cit-ies.The UN acted quickly and prepared to airlift food and medicine to Kabul. The Mujahideen parties agreed to the program on humanitarian grounds. While the UN intends to deliver the aid on purely humanitarian grounds to the vulnerable groups, there are serious doubts about the intentions of the communist regime in Kabul. In the corrupt system of Najib, the privileged people like KHAD agents and party members will get the aid. As always, the ordinary people for whom the aid is intended will suffer.
The scale of assistance is as critical as the way it is distributed. The UN should avoid involving itself in giving any aid to the regime because it will prolong its illegal life.
The people in the city should know that their suffering will not end unless the communist regime is destroyed. They should cooperate with the Mujahideen to destroy the regime. If the Mujahideen action from outside is supported by proper activities from within, the agony of the nation will end.
Victory
From page (7)
pose PDPA on the people of Afghanistan, there would be little chance of similar attempts in other countries.
The victory of the Mujahideen is giving heart to all Muslims. The Mujahideen are Muslims and they have won the war which was fought under the banner of Islam.
Muslims see God's support in the Mujahideen side. A high ranking official from a Middle-East country said to a Mujahideen leader "We are proud of you because you won a victory after decades of failure of the Islamic world in different fronts".
The real winners however are the Afghan people. They started the war with empty hands. They gave everything they had to regain freedom of Afghanistan. They deserve to be happy and proud about the great job they have done.
Minds are pre-occupied with future system in the country and defeating the communist regime. This preoccupation may not let Afghans to celebrate their victory in a big way.
Despite all the difficulties ahead, a major part of the job is done. Soviet have gone and they can not dare to come in Afghanistan or go to any other small neighboring countries. Soviets will be busy in self criticism of their abortive invasion of Afghanistan in the next few decades.
The present leadership in Moscow accuses Marshal Brezenev of committing the mistake to invade Afghanistan. The criticism is directed towards the feasibility of the war not that its aim was not correct The continued support of the Kabul regime and heavy bombardments of civilian targets show that Gorbachev record in committing atrocities is not very different from Biezenev's.
Occupation ends
From page (1) ,
transported from outside the country. The regime will have tremendous difficulties in keeping the roads to the capital and other cities open.
The Soviets announced loosing 2000 soldiers since May 15, .1988 when the Geneva Accord was put in action. With this new figure, the Soviet death toll reaches 15000.
The people of Afghanistan lost 1,000,000 persons most of whom were civilians.