                        - K B y s
                        FAHYAB PROVINCE |9;IZ:1§85                                              .
 Mujahideen of Jamiat attacked a militia post in Maimana and captured 2k militias with their weapons. The commander of the militia post was killed. Xn another operation which took place on Jan.5th Mujahideen, wiped out an enemy, post and captured 12 guns.
 Mujahideen of Jamiat attacked the puppet regime's post in Qa4#«r pis tr Act, 35 people were captured with 50 guns. Mujahideen suffered no casualties and the casualties of the other side were not mentioned in the report.                                         !
 According to Mujahideen sources a militia commander, oalled, Jora pad been killed by Mujahideen in Faryab, Some weeks ago the puppet pegiBie reported that Jora has joined the regime force along with his followers,                      '
                        PARWAN PROVINCE
    Because of the failure of the previous offensive against Che-mali which was launched on Bee. 25th. to save faoe, the enemy launched a new offensive against Chemali on January 3rd,
    Mujahfdeen of Jamiat fought very woll and about 150 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded. The enemy bombed the area heavily and yithout discrimination as a result of which 100 civilians including women and children were killed and a large number of houses were destroyed.
                             SALANG
 2-1-86 m mm wm m» M
    Mujahideen were able to put time-bombs in enemy logistic convoys in Haft Tanoor of Salang. These bombs exploded during the night as a result of which 20 tanks and 2 DJJO artillery pieoes were destroyed. Fourty Soviet soldiers were killed.
 •» Aerial bombardments around Salang are very intense and on Jan--uary 3rd, 3 Mujahids were martyred and two were wounded* There are also civilians casualties,
                          KABUL PROVINCE
 2.2-12-85
 Mujahideen attacked the enemy base in Sorabi District with ground to ground rockets which caused losses in life and property on the enemy side.
                        JAWZJAW - PROVINCE
 2A-11-8§
 Mujahideen of Jamiat in Aqcha District sat a time-bomb in the pipe-line which carries gas from Afghanistan to the Soviet Union.
 It caused intense damage and for three days the flow of gas din the pipe-line was stopped.
