     AFGHAN NEWS       VOL. II____________________ Jyfc&zlSSfl-----Esi
 inflicted losses on them and continued to harass them or not. F Every
 body admits that here Mujahideen did,
  •
    Some journalists who call these types of operations great achievements for the Communists and crushing defeats for the Mujahideen , do not know about the nature of this type of war. They think of war as a game fought in a court (or country). The guerrilla war has its own rules like mobility, surprise , deceit etc.
    It is necessary to be more mobile, not to give a fixed point for the enemy air force to pound. Some carelessness by the Mujahideen helped the Soviets to achieve their symbolic victory. They permitted a journalist to draw an Engineering diagram of the base showing exactly^where every thing was. The diagram was in scale and very accurate. It was published in a French speaking magazine in France. Maybe the temporary capture of Jawar (about 24 hours) is hard for some Mujahideen to digest but it is a lesson to learn to be more mobile and more careful. When Commander Masoud evacuated the Panjshir valley* it was not considered a brave act. But evasion is a guerrilla tactic which we must not forget.
    The offensive of Paktia was not a victory for the enemy. On the other hand it could be a good lesson for Mujahideen.
                        TWO NEW TYPES OF BOMBS USED
    According to a report sent by Commander Ahmad Shah Masoud of the Panjshir valley the Soviets have been heavily bombing the valley since the beginning of May. As well as the ordinary bombs they used before, they are using two new types:
 1. Time-delay bombs which explode several hours after they have been
 dropped. They are timed to explode in the morning and noon, evening and night.                                     '
 2. An unknown bomb about one meter long and one meter in diameter which are dropped from Mig-29 and su-25 Jets. The bomb is a brick-red-colour and with shiny light fins at the tail end. These bombs weigh most at the tail and this end penetrates l/2 to 1 meter into the ground. The surprising thing about these bombs is that none of them have yet exploded.
    The bomb does not seem to be heavy. When they are dropped a flare is also released from the plane which reaches the ground. Mujahideen do not know yet about the bomb, how it can be defused and what is the
 reason for using them. ,
                AFGHAN DEMONSTRATIONS IN TEHRAN
    Thousands of Afghans living in Iran demonstrated in the cities of Tehran „ Qum, Shiraz and Asfahan to condemn the Communist Coup of 27th
 April.