AFGHANews Vol 6, No 20 & 21, November 1, 1990, page©
A. The communist regime in Kabul is the main cause of the displacement. It must go before the refugees can return.
I met with UN representatives and talked to them about UN assistance to the | people of Afghanistan. The UN has failed to help die people in Afghanistan who are facing food shortages.
I pointed out my objections to their programs and they promised to help the people inside. A UN delegation will visit Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar.
Q. Have you had any contact with the Soviets since their troop withdrawal?'
A. When Yuli Vorontsov, the Soviet Ambassador to Kabul, was in Afghanistan, he requested many times to meet me. I rejected his requests and told him that as long as the Soviet Union supported the Kabul regime I was not ready to talk to him.
Q. Has there been any kind of contact between you and the.regime in Kabul.
A. Some government officials have secret contact with us. They provide us with information. The contact is on an individual basis. We have had no contact with regime and there has been no understanding not to launch attacks against Salang or elsewhere as some people think. The Kabul regime has asked many times, in return for ransom, that we not cut the Salang, but I rejected the offers.
Q. What do you think about the uprising of Muslims in Central Asia?
A. We sympathize with oppressed people all over the world. Those who want to get rid of tyranny deserve our support. Jehad in Afghanistan has inspired the people in Central Asia, but I am not providing them with any weapons.
Q. Were you not surprised by the way the Mujahideen leaders live in Peshawar?
A. Some of the things they use are a necessary part of the life in a city. They need some facilities to do their job. But, I am opposed to a life of luxury. I have always opposed it and have not hidden my criticism.
Q. What is your view about drug pro duction and trafficking?
A. Cultivation, trade and use of drugs are forbidden in Islam. We have banned even the use of cigarettes in the areas that Supervisory Council controls, let alone narcotics.
Battlefields News
From page (2)
one was injured on October 15 by enemy artillery.
•The Sayyed of Kayan's militias, with the help of a local group, attacked Jami'at positions in Yarm Valley of Nahrin on October 3. After losing three men the invaders retreated. Two Mujahideen sustained injuries.
Herat Province
•Three regime jets were destroyed on the ground, 24 soldiers were killed and more than 50 were wounded when the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked Shindand Air Base on October 15 with surface-to-surface rockets.
•Regime troops launched an attack to recapture Kohsan district in Herat on October 20. More than 200 tanks and troop earners took part in the operation, which was also supported by the air force.
The Mujahideen resisted the enemy invading force, killing 20 troops. Reports say. that fighting for control of the district still continues.
Kohsan was liberated from enemy control on October 4. Kohsan district is located on the Heral-lslam Qala highway close to the border with Iran.
•A militia commander in Kushfc District joined the Mujahideen with more than 500 armed men on October 4.
Rahman Khan joined the Mujahideen of Jami'at, bringing with him more than 500 guns, three mortars, one ZPU machine-gun, four wireless sets and one truck.
Twenty villages which were controlled by die regime was liberated as a result of this defection.
•Dahna-e-Zulfiqar, where the borders of Afghanistan, Iran and Soviet Union meet, was liberated from the control of the regime militiamen on Octpber 1.
The regime rtiilitias retreated to Soviet territory and about 150 families living in the area expressed their support for the Mujahideen.
The attack was launched by all the Mujahideen groups present in Gulran District.
Zabul Province
Fighting between the Mujahideen and regime forces for the control of Qalat, the provincial capital of Zabul, intensified in October.
The Mujahideen captured the city of Qalat and limited the presence of regime to a military fort (Bala Hisar) overlooking the city.
The road to Qalat from Kabul and Kandahar was cut, and repeated attempts to send reinforcements and supplies from Kandahar failed due to the tough resistance put up by the Mujahideen.
The Kabul regime sent troops and supplies by air but the siege of the city continues.
Qala-i-Naw and Qalat are the two provincial capitals that might fall if pressure on them is maintained. The Kabul regime air force tries to push the Mujahideen out of their positions by heavy bombing.
WiscCon of the sages
From page (3)
thugs. When the time was ripe, he murdered the minister and both his sons, looted the house of an immense amount of money and ran off to the mountains, declaring open rebellion like his father before him.
When this news reached the king, he bit his. hand in anguish and said: " Bad steel won't make a good sword. Education won't make a somebody out of a nobody. The sweet rain falls fairly everywhere, yet in the fields grow lilies and in the salt flats only thorns".
Don't waste good seed in sterile ground.
Mujahideen delegation to visit Moscow
The President of the Russian Republic, Boris Yeltsin, has invited President Sibghatullah Mujaddidi to Moscow for talks about Afghanistan.
In a telegram to Prof. Mujaddidi he has said the time and arrangements of the trip can be discussed with Andronov, Yeltsin's representative in Peshawar.
The main topic of discussion will be the fate of missing Soviet soldiers and other related subjects. Andronov is a member of the Russian Parliament and.a member of a committee working for the release of POWS. He has made a trip to Peshawar along with the parents of some missing sol diers to talk to the Mujahideen leaders.
Prof. Mujaddidi thinks that the invitation should be accepted by the Mujahideen and a delegation should go to Moscow for negotiations. Prof. Rabbani and commander Masood support Mujaddidi's view. They think that the Mujahideen should make use of this opportunity to inform the Soviet public about the wrong policies of their government in Afghanistan.
Andronov informed the Russian parliament that the Mujahideen have accepted the invitation to send a delegation for talks.
Attempt to secure the release of POWs has intensified in Soviet Union. Being disappointed by their government, the people have formed committees to work for the release of the prisoners oi: war.
The main obstacle blocking their release is the hostile policy of Moscow, the Mujahideen have released some POWs in the past on humanitarian grounds. This has not been reciprocated by the Soviet government.
Realizing this problem, Andronov has suggested that the issue Of POWs can be connected to arms to the Kabul regime. Boris Yeltsin has expressed concern about sending arms produced in Russian republic to the Kabul regime.