•AFGHANews VolS, No 7, April 1.1989, page
Afghans celebrate New Year
Afghan new year was on March 21st The year 1368 started when the Soviet troops had left the country and the war for the liberation of Afghanistan has entered anew phase.
The Afghan calendar starts with the immigration of the Prophet Mohammad (Peace be upon him) from Mecca to Madina where the foundation of the first Islamic state was laid. This great event was chosen as the start of the Islamic calendar. The Islamic calendar is based on die lunar system while the Afghan calendar is based on the solar system which has its root in the history of die Afghan land.
Afghan new year marks the beginning of the spring. It opens farming activities on which most of the people depend. This is why die new year’s celebrations are also called farmers fair Maila-Dehqan).
When Afghanistan was peaceful New Years' day was celebrated by the state. The day was a public holiday. Sports events, cattle shows and fanners gatherings were arranged. Among sports, Buzkashi, wrestling and horse races were the most common. These are Afghan traditional sports.
New years day was a happy moment for die families too. Families got to gether, prepared special food and some people visited die grave yards to remember the dead.
Some of these celebrations had a religious color. Raising special flags on shrines was done with the participation of thousands people.
One of such gatherings was held in Mazar-i-Sharif, a city in the north of Afghanistan, where the forth calif of Islam, Hazrat Ali, is supposedly buried.
People from different parts of die country travelled to the city. Some people from neighboring countries also participated in the fair. It was named Maila-e-Gul-e-Surkh ” the red flower fair".
The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and tea years of fighting changed the situation. Five million Afghans live in exile as refugees and
From page ( 4 )
parties who make use of the enemy-made accusations against their fellow Mujahideen commanders belonging to other parties.
While we expect our country men not to listen to enemy rumors and not let them cause any misunderstanding between the Mujahideen groups, we also expect fellow journalists who report the war to watch against enemy disinformation.
two million more are displaced in their country. Seventy five percent of all the villages and towns are destroyed. One million havd lost their lives in the war and thousands of others have been maimed. Families are divided and the country is not safe for celebrations of national and religious occasions.
The current year is special. Afghans have gained a major victory which once seemed impossible and dial is forcing the Soviets to leave Afghanistan. But the problem is not over yet
The Soviet-installed regime controls most of the cities and the war for liberation has entered a new phase. As the weather becomes milder, die war
will escalate. Escalation of war means more death and destruction.
A lot has to be done during the current year. The puppet regime has to be defeated, a representative government should take its place, refugees should start to return home, the reconstruction of Afghanistan should begin, mines needs to be defused and agriculture should be revived.
Afghans hope to do some of these tasks during the current year. They look with hope to the future. But there are a lot of difficulties in front of them. Some of these difficulties are very big.
Afghans have started their new year with a hope and fear which reflects the complicated situation their country is hiring.
The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
From page (6)
of Islam and demonstrate its superiority over other religions and ideologies.
My first published work was the translation vof an essay from the book Islam: the Universal and Permanent
Religion. After that I wrote an article
on the occasion of the Birthday of die Messenger of Islam (peace be upon him).
(3)	Studying communism and trying to understand it We had, however, difficulty in obtaining books which were in favor or against communism because (a) such books were scarce and die communists tried hard to keep them for themselves, and (b) we did not have enough money to purchase such books.
Nonetheless, one of our brothers was able to get some books on communism through a pro-communist government official. One of the first two books we studied on communism was on Ludwig Feuerbach and the other one was The End of Classic Philosophy bv Joseph Stalin. Understanding these books proved very difficult because of their new terminology and new outlook. To understand the conditions in which communism had originated, we also began studying European history in medieval ages and modem tunes.
At the same time that we were following our program of action, we tried to expand our small circle by attracting good and noble people. Two new fellows joined us in late 1957. Oite of them is the leader of a strong Mujahideen organization today. The other person proved undesirable and in order to get rid of him, we had to pretend that we bad disbanded our circle and given up our goals. Later on that
person became the leader of a group which was against Mam. He still leads that group.
In 1958 I was inflicted with a chronic disease which caused our meetings to stop. In die same year Prof. Ghulam Mohammad Niazi returned from Egypt (after studying at Al-Azhar University) and was appointed as alec turer at the Faculty of Shariat. Hebe-gan contacting students and teachers and discussed with them the possibility of forming an Islamic organization. I, however, did not learn about his project in that time.
It was during 1959 that my brother Wafiiillah Sameie approached me ant asked me to join the aide established by Prof. Ghulam Mohammad Niazi Mr. Sameie was also a student at the Faculty of Shariat at that time. Later on he became Minister of Justice in Daud's cabinet and was martyred in the communists' 1978 coup d'etat
Mr. Sameie did not tell me about other members of the organization nvw Neither did I ask him about that Later on I learned that Martyred Prof. Niazi, Martyred Wafiullah Sameie, Martyred Abdul Hadi Hedayat Frol: Burhanuddin Rabbani and some other brothers had regular meetings to plan and organize the Islamic Movement.
I expressed my apologies to Mr. Sameie when he first approached me but promised to cooperate with than as soon as 1 recovered from my illness. ] joined that circle in 1961. Thus the earlier circle was merged into the new circle. Two other members of our earlier circle, including Prof. Rabbani, had joined the new circle before me.