AFGHANew’s Vol 8, No 18 & 19, October 1, 1992, page 0
Floods devastate parts of Parwan Province
The recent floods have killed 400 people and inflicted heavy material losses on the people of Shotol, Gulbahar, Salang and Ghorband of Parwan Province.
President Rabbani cancelled his planned visit to Pakistan and returned to Kabul from Jakarta where he attended the 10th NAM summit.
A commission, headed by Abdul Aziz Murad, was formed to assess the losses and supervise distribution of relief aid. The Health Ministry sent a team to the area.
Afghanistan has appealed for international assistance for those affected by floods in Parwan. In response to this appeal, the UN has released emergency aid worth $30,000 and Great Britain has promised $ 100,00().
Ahmad Shah Masood, the Defense Minister, visited the area to'Condole with the people over death of their relatives.
World Focd Program has decided to send 4,000 tonnes of food to the people affected by, floods. Iran and Pakistan have also sent relief goods to help the people.
More than 500 livestock, hundreds of houses and shops and hundreds of acres of farmland and orchard were destroyed by these floods. The Gulbahar bridge connecting Parwan Province to Panjshir and Kohistan was destroyed. The mosque of Gulbahar and a nearby Shrine survived while the surrounding shops were washed away. The road to Panjshir and Kohistan has been reo-
pened but it will take time to rebuild the bridge over the Shotol River.
Some of those washed by the flood were refugees returning from Pakistan.
The news about floods in Pakistan diverted attention from floods in Parwan, reducing the chance of getting enough assistance for rebuilding the affected areas.
While floods in Pakistan were larger in scale and inflicted heavierTosses in lives and material, Pakistan can deal with the situation to restore normal life in the flood-affected areas. The situation in Afghanistan is different. The country is facing problems due to war and the government will find it difficult to deal with the situation arising from the floods without considerable foreign aid.
The United Nations' staff visiting the affected areas have reported the following damages: j
In Salang 47 houses, 610 hectares of agricultural land, 10 bridges and 64 small canals are in need of ■ rehabilitation.
In Shotol, 700 hectares of land 17 bridges and 60.small canals are in need of rehabilitation. y
In Gulbahar, 100 houses and 4 large canals in need of rehabilitation.
In Ghorband (Ashawa), 16 houses, three bridges and 42 small canals are in need of rehabilitation.
The UN list does not include. a large number of shops destroyed in Gulbahar and destruction of Gulbahar bridge.
The heads of State or Government commended the heroic struggle of the Afghan people against foreign invasion and foreign imposed regimes. They congratulated the Government of the Islamic State of Afghanistan and considered it a positive development towards peace, stability, national reconciliation and reconstruction in Afghanistan for the benefit of its long-suffering people. While deploring the present internal hostilities against the legitimate government of Afghanistan and the atrocities inflected upon the innocent people, hoped that the grounds are prepared for the holding of free and fair elections as soon as possible, so that a permanent government which reflects the wishes and aspirations of the people and ensures political, economic and social stability, can be formed.
The heads of State or Government called upon the international community to participate actively and generously in the reconstruction of Afghanistan and to increase humanitarian and financial aid for the speedy, voluntary and safe return of Afghan refugees to their homeland.
11 fit
m

The president of Iran has criticized the war in Afghanistan. Addressing the National Assembly of Pakistan, he said Afghan leaders wereTighiing for nothing and Lhcy would answer to God Almighty for their actions.
President Hashimi Rafsanjani reached Islamabad on September 6 for official talks with Pakistani leaders.
Rafsanjani rejected the view dial Pakistan and Iran were competing to spread their influence in Afghanistan saying, there, was no valuable thing to compete over. He added if there were any competition, it was for the, rebuilding of Afghanistan.
The Prime Minister of Pakistan Mohammad Nawaz Sharif said Iran and Pakistan should adopt similar policy for support to the Afghan people.
Teheran Times wrote in an editorial, on the occasion of Rafsanjani's visit to Pakistan, that Islamabad should end giving aid to anti-government parties in Afghanistan. In Teheran Times' opinion, support for war-mongering groups lead to clashes which will be difficult to control.
It is believed that Hezb Islam i has been receiving aid from across the border during its rocket attacks on Kabul.
Saudi delegation arrives in Kabul
A Saudi Arabia delegation, headed By General Abdul Otaibi, met with Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood on September 29 in Kabul.
The delegation discussed reopening of Saudi embassy in Kabul and oth er issues of mutual interest with the defense minister. The delegation returnee to Saudi Arabia the same day.
Saudi Arabia has recognized the Islamic government in Kabul. Riyadh had closed its diplomatic mission in Kabul after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979. It extended political recognition to the defunct interim government formed by the Mujahideen in Peshawar. Saudi Arabia was one of the main supporter of the Mujahideen during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.
According to news agencies, Prince Turkey, ihe head of Saudi Intelligence Service, recently met With Gulbuddin Hikmatyar in Jalalabad. There is no information about the content of their talks. The Saudi Prince had flown to Jalalabad from Islamabad.