AFGHANews Vol 8, No 10 & 11, June 1, 1992, page ©
home
Pakistan is preparing to repatriate more than three million Afghan refugees after the solution of the Afghan problem.
A high-level meeting of, Pakistani officials directed the concerned authorities to prepare a complete list of Afghans living in the cities. Most of the Afghans living in the refugee camps are registered with the government of Pakistan, and are entitled to food assistance by UNHCR.
The remaining Afghan refugees live in the cities and work to support themselves. Some Pakistanis have expressed concern that many refugees may not return home because they have a better economic life in Pakistan than in Afghanistan. But recent UN figures show that more than 7,000 refugees return to Afghanistan from Pakistan each day. This does not include a great number of unregistered refugees who return without getting any assistance from the UN.
Pakistan will ask die international community to provide funds for the repatriation of Afghan refugees.
Iran has also contacted the UN for assistance in repatriating about two million Afghan refugees. Radio Iran reported that Hezb Wahdat had asked the Islamic Republic of Iran to help the repatriation of Afghan refugees. Disputing the report, a spokesman of Hezb Wahdat said that die situation in Afghanistan was not suitable for the immediate return of the refugees. He argued that the economy of the country could not cope with a massive repatriation of the refugees.
In brief
The national airlines of Afghanistan, Ariana Afghan Airlines, resumed flights to Teheran on May 13 after a 14- year hiatus. For the time being there is to be one
flight weekly on Thursday.
•
The Leadership Council of Afghan istandissolved Watan Party on May 6, the spokesman of the council Shaikh Asif Mohsini told reporters.
The council also dissolved the cabinet, senate, the national assembly and the secret police of the former regime.
Changiz Pahlawan, a professor of Teheran University, has advised the Iranian government to deal with refugees with the utmost care, so that they return to their country with good memories of their host country.
The UN and other relief organizations should provide support for the unregistered refugees who want to return. Transportation cost are so great that most refugees are not able to transport their families and belongings.
Each registered refugee family receives about 300 kilograms of wheat and Rs. 3,000 ( $150) for transportation costs.
It might take one year for most of the refugees to return home. The government of Pakistan has lifted restrictions on transporting food to Afghanistan. The refugees have been allowed to take with them their moveable belongings; occasionally corrupt officials between Peshawar and Torkham create problems for refugees, trying to extort money from them.
Convoys of trucks loaded with refugees leave the border for different parts of Afghanistan every day. Regular bus service operates between Kabul and Peshawar. The road is safe and the Mujahideen cooperate with the passengers. The effect of the Refugees' return is visible in Peshawar. There are fewer cars and buses on the streets of Peshawar. The residents of some parts of Peshawar are facing transportation difficulties because most of the Afghan buses operating in their areas have left Peshawar.
Ariana Afghan Airlines has began its weekly flights between Kabul and Peshawar. The price for a one-way ticket is $80.
Afghans’ strike ends in China
A group of Afghan asylum seekers called off a hunger strike in Beijing on May 9 after UN officials accepted their demands, a spokesman for the group said.
Earlier, Chinese police told some 70 Afghans protesting in front of the officer of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) that they were breaking Chinese law and would have to leave.
The protesters, who began a hunger strike on May 1 to pressure the UNHCR to accept them as refugees, left quietly in two police buses that took them back to hotels where they have been living since arriving in China.
UNHCR chief of mission Peirre-Michel Fontaine later met with several Afghan representatives and agreed to issue them certificates, on a case-bycase basis. ,
Harakat unites
Three rival factions of Harakat Inqilab Islami Afghanistan have decided to merge into a single party under the leadership of Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi, a Harakat source told reporters in Peshawar on May 2.
Mawlawi Mansoor and Mawlawi Moazin, the heads of the smaller factions, will serve as the deputies of the leader of Harakat in the reunited party.
Nabi's original Harakat is led mostly by traditional Ulama (clergy) with considerable backing in most parts of Afghanistan. Its policies generally are moderate, and are usually coordinated with Prof. Mujaddidi and Sayyed Ahmad Gailani.
Mawlawi Mansoor and Mawlawi Moazin developed close ties with the government of Iran after they formed their own factions.