AFGHANews Vol5, No 12, June 15,1989, page @
100 killed in ethnic unrest
in Soviet Uzbekistan
A railroad disaster and ethnic unrests has claimed the lives of more than 900 people in the Soviet Union, news agencies reported.
800 people were killed when two trains on the trans-Siberian line took fire on June 4. The two trains were passing the area when a gas pipeline exploded setting the trains on fire. Among these killed were 40 school children.
In Uzbekistan ethnic unrest claimed the lives of 100 and more 500 people were injured.
The ethnic unrest, according to news agencies, broke out near Farghana city in Uzbekistan on June 3.
Gashes took place between local Uzbeks and minority Meskhetain Turks who were departed from Georgia during world war n by Stalin.
A large number of houses were set on fire. The authorities imposed a curfew in parts of Uzbekistan.
Ethnic unrest has become a common problem in different parts of the Soviet empire. Unrest in Georgia, Amrmenia, Azerbaijan, and the Baltic states have created alot of problems for the Soviet government.
By gaining a little freedom to express themselves different nationalities within the Soviet Union demand more freedom. They want religious freedom and the right to five according to their culture.
Since die non-Russian population of the USSR is growing rapidly, it would be difficult for the Soviet leadership to preserve the present system of die empire which is basedon the supremacy of the Russians majority at the expense of the rights of non-Russian nationalities.
Communism has failed to bring people of different ethnic groups close together, something falsely claimed by die Soviet leaders in the past.
Ex-ki
of 'National Front'
Mohammad Zahir, the ex-king, Who has lived in exile in Rome since 1973, has asked for the formation of a national front to overcome the present difficulties.
In an interview with VOA he said that Afghans were united against the Soviet Union and this unity made them victorious. He said that after the Soviet withdrawal Afghans, could not maintain their unityfl);
He proposed formation of a Loya Jirga (Grand Assembly) to decide the future form of government in Afghanistan.
Zahir Shah was deposed by his cousin, Daud in 1973. He did not take an active part in Jehad against the Soviet invaders. Due to difficulties between Mujahideen groups, his name is often proposed as a third-party solution to the Afghan crisis.
The communist regime in Kabul and the Soviets say that the ex-king can play a role in bringing peace. But the king so far has rejected doing anything with the regime.
The resistance is divided on the role the ex-King can play. Islamist parties, known in the West as fundamentalists, are opposed to any role played by the king.
The so-called moderates either
openly support his return or do not oppose it. But they do not agree on the role he should be given. The Iran-based parties have opposed the return of the king.
The king himself is waiting and watching. According to available information the king is waiting for a time when all Afghan parties and both superpowers ask him to step in and lead the country. People who know the king doubt that he will hold any responsibility if he is opposed by some Mujahideen groups. He has been a weak leader, not strong enough to take the risks to become the Afghan ruler in a very critical time.
In the Loya Jirga convened by the communist regime a three-member delegation was formed to hold talks with the ex-King and other opposition groups. It is not clear whether the long will meet the delegation or not -
The king's view that Afghans have given up their unity after the Soviet withdrawal is strange because there is no evidence of increased disputes among the Mujahideen. The delay in the Mujahideen victory over the regime is the result of a number of factors and cannot be blamed on increased disunity among die resistance fighters.
The third round of talks between the Mujahideen and the Soviet Union representatives on the issue of prisoners qf war was held at die foreign ministry of Pakistan in Islamabad on June 6. •The talks continued for 45 minutes.
The Mujahideen side in the talks were represented by a 4-member team while the Soviet delegation woe the officials of the Soviet embassy in Islamabad.
Soviets say that their 313 servicemen are missing while the Mujahideen put the figures of their missing fighters to several thousands some of whom are believed to be held inside the Soviet Union.
Before completion of troop withdrawals a large number of well known Mujahideen prisoners were transferred to some unknown destination. The Mujahideen believe dial either they were killed or were taken to the Soviet Union. Professor Rabbani has informed Amnesty International about the incident and has asked the organization to locate these prisoners so that their families may be informed.
In the past Soviet made deals with the Mujahideen parties and commander to exchange POWs.
It is said that the Soviets are planning to send a team of the mothers of the missing soldiers to Pakistan to talk to the Mujahideen. This could be an attempt by the Soviets to draw public attention towards the problem and put pressure on the Mujahideen.
Snow destroys fruit threes
Late snowfall destroyed fruit trees in several districts in Baghlan and Takhar provinces, Mujahideen reaching Peshawar reported.
Last winter was harsh and long. The last snow, which fell on May 7, destroyed fruit trees in Andarab, Khost and parts of Farkhar.
"People will not eat apricots, al monds, apples and cherries this year because the late snow broke all the branches of the trees," said a Mujahid from Khost-o-Frmg.
However, the effect of rain and snow has been positive on the harvest