	2, January 15, 1991, page ©
AFGHANews Vol 7, No	
Soviets send food to Kabul despite shortages at home A British freelance journalist who has ganized by the regime in which a regime of-just returned from a 12-day trip to Kabul ficer read out a statement by a visiting and Hairatan border town says he was PLO representative about Hezb Islami con-amazed by the amount of food supplies sent tact with the Kabul regime . It is said that by the Soviet Union to the Kabul regime the PLO at one stage mediated between when Moscow itself was facing food Hezb and the Kabul regime and organized a shortages. meeting between the representatives of the Peter Jouvenal found Hairatan a busy two sides in Baghdad, Iraq, town in which many Soviet civilians Peter says the Kabul regime helps for-worked. A bridge, usable by trucks and eign journalists to visit Afghanistan be-trains, connects Hairatan with Soviet town cause it serves its interests. In the early of Termiz, on the other side of the Amu years of occupation, only 'friendly'joumal-River. Goods trains bring fuel, food and ists were allowed to visit the government-other commercial commodities to Hairatan. controlled areas. He said most of the visit-Peter was surprised by the vast amount ing journalists had no background informa-of grain brought from Soviet Union to tion about the situation in Afghanistan and Hairatan. The Soviets have a consulate in this was the reason why their stories filed Hairatan. A canteen offered very cheap from Kabul were usually one-sided, meals to Soviet citizens and UN officials He was provided with an official trans-there. lator and this limited his contact with ordi-Peter was permitted by the Soviet au- nary Afghans because people do not talk thorities to visit Termiz and he found the openly in the presence of regime's men. contrast between the two border towns The few people whom he talked to corn-striking. While everything was in abun- plained about economic difficulties and exdance in Hairatan, shops in Termiz were pressed their wish to see the end of war. empty. He found Termiz like other cities of Life for ordinary residents of Kabul is the Soviet Union. Peter visited Moscow very difficult. Government officials and last year and saw shortages of essential party men are issued with special coupons commodities there. which make them entitled to subsidized Food and fuel were not the only com- fuel and food. While the price of food was modities sent by Soviets to their communist very high, Peter found that the price of al-friends in Kabul. A large number of trucks, coholic drihks was very low, and alcohol tanks and artillery pieces were parked in was available both for foreigner and Hairatan ready for transportation to Kabul. Afghans. A similar amount of military hardware were All the petrol pumps in Kabul' were also seen in Mazar-i-Sharif, about 100 ki- closed . The army has taken over distribu-lometers from the border. tion of petrol and it seemed that the army Russian drivers transported food for was storing fuel for/nilitary consumption, the UN from Termiz to Mazar. The road The other reason for the shortage is ade-from Hairatan to Mazar seemed safe, at crease in the supply of fuel from the Soviet least during the day, and trucks moved un- Union. The pipeline bringing fuel from the escorted. The UN has an office in Mazar Soviet border to Bagram is not operational which distributes food aid brought through anymore and fuel is brought by tankers to the Soviet Union in the cities and some are- die capital. Kabulis are facing long power as controlled by the Mujahideen. The food cuts. The important government officers distributed by the UN is donated by and foreigners living in Kabul are exempted Western countries. from power cuts. Peter flew from Delhi to Kabul by an Peter came across some pro-Afghan Ariana Airlines flight Two at- Mujahideen people who were very critical tempts to land in Kabul failed, once be- of die random rocket attacks on Kabul. He cause of the incoming rockets and the next visited Indira Gandhi Hospital and saw only time because of bad weather. three wounded children who were burned Talking to the air crew, he learned that by flares dropped from Russian transport there were two airlines which .fly to Kabul, planes. This indicated that there were no Ariana Afghan Airlines and Soviet recent casualties from rocket attacks, some-Aeroflot. Ariana planes fly to Prague, thing the regime would have tried to show Moscow, Dubai and India. For security con- if there were. siderations Ariana planes are based outside He found Paghman in control of re-Afghanistan and leave Kabul the same day gime militiamen. Paghman is totally de-they arrive. strayed and almost deserted. The Kabul rein Kabul, Peter attended a party given gime launched an attack last year to push by the Soviet Novisty News Agency, visit- the Mujahideen out of the valley so that ed Paghman, interviewed Najibullah and their guns are out of range, met with die regime Prime Ministar, The Kabul regime officers accompany-Khaliqyar. ing Peter tried to show their displeasure The Novisty party was attended by over die massive destruction of die resort many Afghans and around 10 Soviet jour- town, but to Peter this seemed hypocritical nalists, most of whom had been posted in because the town was destroyed by the re-Afghanistan for a long time. They seemed gime's artillery and air force. He had visited pro-regime. Paghman one year before with the Najib's interview lasted for an hour Mujahideen and even spent three days in and a half, during which he repeated his Kabul during which he was helped by old stories. Peter met with regime's Prime KHAD officers sympathetic to the Minister who moved on crutches and Mujahideen. looked exhausted. Some months ago he was On the way back to Kabul, Peter had a shot by the Mujahideen when he attended a short stay in Herat airport. He met a UN meeting in Herat. He has not fully recov- worker in the airport who told him that ered from the wounds. He also met with the heavy righting continued between the leader of Salvation Society, Prof. Asghar, Mujahideen and regime troops close to the who had opened his office in a hotel. He city. seemed unhappy with the regime because Peter is a freelance cameraman who his peace plan was not taken seriously by has made 52 trips to Afghanistan with the Najib. The Salvation Society is a pro-Zahir Mujahideen since April 1980. He has visit-Shah organization allowed to function in ed the North, Panjshir, north of Kabul, Kabul. southern and eastern provinces to report Peter attended a press conference or- war for many television networks.	Mansoori’s interview From page (7) dividuals .people vote for a party and then the party can send representatives to the assembly based on the number of votes they have gained. Al-Jehad: There are indications that Iran's policy towards the Kabul regime is becoming softer. Resumption of telephone links between Tehran and Kabul, participation by a regime delegation in a conference in Tehran and participation by Iranian diplomats in functions organized by the regime in Kabul are some of these indications. What resulted in such a policy change? Mansoori: In some of these steps the interest of the Afghan people has been the key factor. For example, telephone links between Kabul and Tehran were resumed at the request of a large number of Afghan refugees in Tehran who wanted to have a means to contact their families. Iran's government did not invite the regime delegation to Tehran. It was invited by the UN. This invitation has had no affect on our policy towards the Kabul regime . Participation by the regime delegation in the seminar does not mean its recognition by us. We do not have diplomatic links with some other countries like Egypt, Jordan and Morocco, but their delegations take part in international seminars held in Tehran. Al-Jehad: If an international conference is held in Tehran in which a delegation from Israel is invited, do you accept it? Mansoori: We will not agree with such a conference to be held in Tehran. If we agreed with a conference organized by an international organization in which Israel is a member, its delegation can take part in it. N Al-Jehad: Does Iran support a coalition government in Kabul in which Mujahideen, communists and pro-West elements, headed by Zahir Shah, take part? Mansoori: Any step taken by the Mujahideen to solve their problems will not be opposed by us. But Zahir Shah cannot help solving the Afghan problem. Those who talk about Zahir Shah and his future role either do not have information about the realities of Afghanistan, or they do not know Zahir Shah. Al-Jehad: It seems that Iran prefers pro-West moderate parties over Islamist (fundamentalist) parties. Is this because you do not want to see a Sunni fundamentalist party in Kabul which will compete with the Islamic Republic of Iran, or you think Shias will be better off under a pro-West government rather than undo: a Sunni fundamentalist government? Mansoori: You better ask this question from those who do not have good relations with Iran.' We support all Afghans and treat them warmly. But some Afghan groups publish anti-Iran articles in their publications. We gave them permission to open their offices in Tehran but they closed them for reasons only known to themselves. Al-Jehad: Some Shia parties complain that Iran interferes in their internal affairs. The coalition of Shia parties has shifted its office from Tehran to Peshawar. Is this accusation valid? Mansoori: We do not interfere in the affairs of our Afghan brothers. Those who shifted their offices to Peshawar, compared to the Wahdat party, form a minority. We do not know what they want but this is the habit of those who separate from a party, to say dungs which are not true.