RfGHfiH HEMS WL.IU, NO, 2, 1/15/1908, ERSE ?
 The Soviets and the puppet regime are very sensitive about foreign journalists travailing with the Mujahideen. They are afraid that these people "will take the news of' their atrocities our. of Afghanistan and tell the world about it. Prison, and charges of espionage are used to intimidate them, so that they will net enter Afghanistan with the Mujahideen to cover the war
 Some years ago, when a French doctor was captured in Afghanistan, the Soviet ambassador in Islamabad warned journalists going inside that they would be killed by the Soviets and puppet armed forces
 Mr, Guillo was tried by a so-called Revolutionary Court, which does not allow the person on trial to defend himself properly. These courts have been responsible for the execution and imprisonment of thousands of innocent Afghans. Mr, Guillo has not broken any law, He was travelling with the Resistance, who represent the Afghan people, and who control most of Afghanistan.
 The sentences of 16 years for each of the two Afghans who were captured along with j Mr, Guillo, reveals the criminal nature of the puppets and their masters,
 World public opinion must put pressure on the Soviet Union to set Mr, Giilo free, The Soviets are the true rulers in Kabul.
                                   AFGHANISTAN AND SOME ARAB LEADERS
 While most of the Arab countries support the Mujahideen, there are some who oppose them, It is natural for an Afghan to expect his Arab brothers, who are Muslims, to come to his aid when he is attacked by a Godless superpower.
 While most of the Arab countries have supported our cause, there are some who oppose it on various grounds. Libya, Syria and South Yemen are oppose us to please the Soviets. These countries have strong links with the puppet regime in Kabul; they even lobby for the Soviet cause in the UN and other international forums.
 Algeria, which once had to fight for its freedom, now fails to support even the weak resolution on Afghanistan passed by the UN, We believe that this position of indifference does not suit a people who once fought for their freedom and the preservation of their faith.. The Algerians owe us support, because when the7 were fighting we supported their cause
 Iraq's position has fluctuated throughout the past 5 years. Sometimes it supports the resolution and sometimes abstains At the beginning of Soviet invasion, Iraq became suspicious of Soviet intentions towards the small countries with whom they had signed friendship treaties But as the Iraq-Iran war dragged on, Iraq started to shift towards the Soviet Union, one of its main weapon suppliers.
 The position of North Yemen is peculiar President All Abdullah Saleh, while visiting Pakistan, said to the reporters that he supported the efforts of Pakistan to find a political settlement to the problem of Afghanistan, but a few weeks ago Yemen's representatives did not take part in General Assembly voting on Afghanistan
 Kuwait, in an attempt to maintain good relationship with the Soviets, has given little support to Afghanistan's cause The Arab summit in Kuwait was extremely weak on Afghanistan, There was little opportunity for the Mujahideen Delegation to make soiid contacts with other delegations and with the press.
 Finally, the PLO is a supporter of the puppets and of the Soviet invasion, The PLG chief, Mr, .Arafat, was one of the few leaders in the world who sent a congratulatory message to puppet leader Najib, when he declared himself the president of Afghanistan This behavior is strange because Afghans always have been strong supporters of the
 Palestinian cause