----------------- AFGHANeire  Vol4, No 9, May 1,1986, Page 6
    ”               “    I---         —
I Opinion by Mohammad Es’haq
i . — ... ■■■. ....._. . -
             April coup brought biggest tragedy of modern history
      THE GREAT tragedy of Afghanistan started 10 years ago when a group
   of Coaaaucist officers took pover in Eefcut through a bloody coup. This led the country to a civil tot and then to the Soviet occupation vhich still continues.
      On April 27. Soviet-trained officers of President Daud s army who were members of a pro-Soviet Communist party called People Democratic party of Afghanistan (PDPA) attacked the government establishment. After a i bloody engagement in which j several thousand people, including the President, were killed the Communists took power and Nocr Mohammad Taraki was the leader of the country.
      The PDPA which was a Marxist party closely connected to the Soviet Union was established in I$65, Later the party split into several factions but all of them remained loyal to Moscow, The two main factions were Khalq headed by Taraki and Parcham headed by Babrak Kariaai.
      President Daud who was a member of the royal family and had deep differences , with the rest of his family j started to patronize the ■ Communist factions. The ! Communist officers helped him in 1973 to depose King Zahir and come to power as the f irst president of Afghanistan,
         The Communists did not remain loyal to Daud for a long time. They were using Daud to promote their cause. Dauc developed deep suspicions about the loyalty
 of the Communists to himself and to the country. This led to the communist coup and overthrow of Daud,
    When the Communists took power they tried to impose a series of reforms which were against the religious beliefes of the people. The Communist regime started to purge all its potential enemies. Thousands of religious figures , army and civilian officers, prominent figures, businessmen, students, spiritual leaders and people from different walks of life were imprisoned, tortured, and killed,
    The Communist economic, political and social reforms were affecting every aspect of the people s private and public life. In short, the policy was to impose an alien way of life on the people of Afghanistan who were deeply religious and traditional,
    Open hostilities started in different corners of the country. The Communists started to use armed force against civilians and thousands of Soviet advisors (military and civilian) were brought to help the regime in its struggle against the people of Afghanistan, In 1979 the number of Soviet advisors were estimated at 20,000 men.
    The Communists who were proud of their victory over Daud and confident of Soviet support did not know any limit in their tyranny against the people, Their extreme policies pushed the people to an extreme decision of armed conflict which quickly turned into a national uprising • covering the whole country.
    The army which was fighting the people started to dissolve and most of its arms felt into the hands of the
 people. The countryside was liberated and the provincial capitals came under pressure
    The Communist party could not remain united. Some months after the coup, the Parcham faction headed by Babrak was purged. Babrak, N&jib and some others were exiled and expelled from the party.
    Taraki was killed by Amin, the main architect of the April coup. Amin who was Taraki's deputy become the president, He was a veteran communist and loyal to Moscow.
    The regime s grip on the country was slipping away and the Soviets feared their loss of Influence which they had planned to spread over the past 50 years.
    The Soviet Union made its historical mistake of invading Afghanistan which has continued since 1979, What has happened to the country during the Soviet occupation is very tragic. About one million people were killed , five million became ref ugees and 75S of ail the villages and towns were destroyed.
    The Aighan Communists role in all these years of occupation has been the role of spies and local agents for the occupationist army. Despite the use of the Red Army and spending an enormous amount of money the Soviets failed to build the puppet regime into a reliable force. The puppets have been rejected by the people of Afghanistan,
    Now that Soviets have promised to leave Afghanistan, once more the