	
	
establishment of an Islamic government,
*	The SON emphasises that the heroic Mujahideen will continue their attacks on enemy bases until the establishment of the Islamic government,
•	The SCM wants to ensure the national unity, safeguard the territorial integrity, and restore the non-aligned character of the Islamic Afghanistan, ft will not tolerate division of Afghanistan under any name or form.
•The SCN strongly rawest* all those who are working with the puppet regime and have remained in the ranks of the enemy for various reasons to contact the SCN’s underground network and extend their sincere cooperation.
•the SCN unanimously proclaims its full support of the wise leadership of Prof, Burhanuddln Rabbani in accordance with jXA's Principles of Allegiance” and Character of Goals " which are based on the teachings of Islamic Sharia. It wants continuation of jehad under his leadership.
Five refugee students
drowned
IXVS students from : Sarwe® district of Bad«fetobm province droimedinAtNesin River oner Kheiretbed
Afghans gains worry
Soviet leaders
HEK Huiahidsoa^ military ^ political victories after the Soviets started to withdraw tlieir troops have 'married the Soviets and as a tionseguence of that the pace of troop withdrawal has stowad and the Soviet war eetMtias against the Sesistaftce have iwmml, soli tha Jurat loader is a
The students studied inaMedressein Afcora-i-KhAtafc on Peshawar- Islamabad road.
Due to hot weather, the students vent to swim in the river hut they veredrovned. Their bodies hove not been found.
hetti o& Jwe SO.
Prof. Rabbani said that the late military victories of the Mujahideen have been remarkable.
He said that the Geneva accord, as predicted by the Mujahideen, did not bring peace. This accord has facilitated the withdrawal of a smalt portion of Soviet forces but their air force which has been a major element in the war against the Afghan people, has not been withdrawn.
Soviet planes fly from their bases inside the Soviet territory to bomb their targets in Afghanistan. Such raids have been carried out recently in Samangan and Farysb provinces in the North of Afghanistan.
The Soviets hoped that the signing of the Geneva accords would lead te the elimination of the Resistance and the return of the refugees to the "Kabul slaughter house." However, contrary to the expectations of the enemy, the Resistance emerged stronger and the refugees did not return, said Prof. Rabbaai.
The jams'at leader was of the opinion that the receht Russian propaganda which accuses Pakistan of violating the Geneva accords might he an indication of Russian
plans to continue their aggression against Afghanistan.
He said that what was going on in the battlefields of Afghanistan did not have anything to do with Pakistan.
Concerning positive political developments at home, Prof, Rabbani, mentioned the big meeting of the commanders in the North which was held in the first week of June,
He also mentioned a recent meeting of the commanders of Jttsi'at in Logur and a meeting which is going to be held soon in the West of Afghanistan, Prof, Rabbani Indicated that the recent announcement of the interim government of the Mujahideen was a victory for the Resistance and a sign of greater cooperation among different parties.
Rajiv's remarks that the Mujahideen government was a threat to peace, was rejected by Prof. Rabbani. He said that the Mujahideen government which will come to power in accordance with the aspirations of Afghan people will not pose any threat to the region. This government will seek good relationship with all the countries and focus on rebuilding Afghanistan,
The security of the region has been endangered by the Soviet aggression and expansionist policies of Rajive and his late mother, added Prof. Rabbani,
The jaml at leader said: “however, we differentiate between the policies of Rajiv and the views of the Indian people with whom Afghans have had a traditional and cordial relationship/
Prof. Rabbani believed that Ccrdovez's mission to form a broad-based government will fail because it is now too late.
