  AEGHABMEWS SPECIAL JIM IlfflS 15/11 U3M_PAGEJL
 group commanders themselves. The tensions were of different natures such as parochial ways of thinking, regional ways of contacting others, traditional ways of organizing their Mujahideen, selfish ways of social behavior, rival ways of approaching or dealing with other parties and above all, Khad's extensive efforts to infiltrate Mujahideen and take advantage of the mentioned weak points. Thanks to God, commanders having this kind of individualistic and personal interests were in minority and a good majority of people and Mujahideen were in favour of correcting such a suffocating "no plan no organization" atmosphere
 According to commander Massoud about 70% of the problems have been solved through a real day and night work with the help of religious scholars (Ulama), elders and like-minded commanders from other parties. Although this initiative is Jamiat's, it does not mean at all that Jamiat wants other parties to be a part of it. The gist of the work is " be in your own party but get organized before the enemy destroy your forces ". Government has no doubt increased its propaganda saying that it is Massoud who wants to expand his zone of influence and power or it is Jamiat which has a so called expansionist policy Unfortunately some naive and narrow-minded people outside Afghanistan, mainly in Peshawar, are encouraging this idea without thinking about its harmful repercussions In fact it is not a challenge to their authority but to the common enemy
 (4)  Local atiiances:
 To continue the process of easing tensions and solving diffrences amongst commanders, to maintain what they have already achieved in this regard, to prepare joint operations and coordinate military activities and to help civilians to live in harmony with Mujahideen, local alliances were created. They are at the provincial and district levels, Most of the joint operations this year launched in Kundoz. Takhar and Baghian have been the work of these alliances (see Afghan News Vol. II, No. 7). Victory over Farkhar garrison was a brilliant work of joint cooperation of these local alliances
 (5)  Organization of the Base Areas:
 There were two types of base areas in the North which Mujahideen had to build and organize : (a) Mountain base areas and (fa> flat base areas
 The work in the (a) type has to a large erten 1 been completed. In the first place Mujahideen chose strategic and deep valleys with high mountains parallel to each other and providing an easy retreat. Mountain bases like Khailab, Namakab, Farkhar, Ishkamesh, Kishm Worsai, Khost-o-Fereng, Sahng, Kohhand-i-Kohistan etc. were organized This process included both establishing new bases and organizing the already established ones Each base has its own defensive, mobile and strike groups Beside this the bases have their sub-bases or sQarargah) with their own special activities to do Each base has also its own administrative system with an effective judicial one Each base has its own general commander with tens of group-commanders. Hundreds of Mujahideen are busy working in their groups Training centres have been established in different bases to ' atn those who had no training. A limited number of medical clinics and a good number of primary and mosque schools (madrasas) have been opened. With a limited number of Jack Hammers that they have, groups are busy digging caves in the maountains to make shelters for civilians and Mujahideen to protect themselves from bombardments. Wherever possible irrigation channels are repaired or built Supply routes are corrected In short each base has its military and social responsiblities to be fulfilled According to many commanders Panjshir has been followed and even copied in the North despite Russian efforts over four years to prevent it They said Panjshir should no longer be called the only base for Soviet offensives But still, I found it a "mother base”
 Russians tried twice in the summer of 1986 to destroy the bases by a heavy eleven day bombardment combined with extensive use of long range artillery as well as hundreds of heliborn commando troops but, thank God they failed The credit undoubtedly goes to the organizational work of Mujahideen, (see From Theory to Practice pages 9- 13, Jami at fslami Publication)