AFGHANews Vol 5, No 5, March 1,1989, page 8
Mujahideen planning final attak on Herat
Rivalries
make
prisoner
governor
The new governor of Ningarhar province is a KHAD agent who escaped from prison in Panjshir with the help of a Resistance party.
Major-General Manokai Mangal a KHAD agent who tried to establish a rival group in Panjshir against Masood in 1980- was arrested and tried by the Mujahideen.
He was serving a long-term prison sentence in jail when he escaped with the help of some local agents of KhAD to the neighboring valley in Andarab.
He and his guides surrendered to Juma Khan, the commander of Hezb Islami. Juma Khan was asked by Jami'at to return the KHAD agents but he refused.
A deal was made between Juma Khan and the regime and Manokai was handed over to the regime.
Juma Khan joined the regime as a militiaman in 1983 and later was killed by the Mujahideen of Andarab.
He assumed important positions in KhAD and finally was posted to Ningarhar to infiltrate the refugees in Pakistan.
He used his old friends to create problems for Masood. Some of his agents were responsible for creating problems for Masood's transportation lines in Nooristan.
These agents created problems under the cover of the same party which had handed over Manokai to the regime.
Afghans play Buzkashi in Lahore
Afghan Mujahideen participated in a . national festival in Pakistan for foe first time by presenting a Buzkashi game(Goat Snatching) at foe Fortress Stadium on February 24.
The sport, which originated on foe banks of foe Amo River in Afghanistan, was presented by two 14-member teams of the Mujahideen at foe 38th National Horse and Cattle Show after presenting their traditional cap and Chapan to president Ghulam Ishaq.
Commander Allauddin, Deputy of Commander Ismail Khan, said that Jami'at Islami has adopted a two-pronged policy for the liberation of Herat province.
Efforts are being made to forge closer unity between the Mujahideen in Herat and to coordinate their activi-ties.The process of infiltration into the enemy's institutions has intensified. These two things will help the Mujahideen to defeat the enemy, Commander Allauddin said to Afghanews in Peshawar.
He said that the commanders from Jami'at in Herat held a meeting on February 18 to discuss current issues.
Commander Allauddin, who left Herat 20 days ago, said that the Soviet withdrawal has weakened the regime's position in that province. Kushk district, close to the Soviet border, was liberated when 600 government troops laid down their arms. About 300 soldiers of the regime stationed in Band Salma (Salma Dam), 60 kilometers east of the Herat city, surrendered to the Mujahideen. Twenty villages controlled by pro-regime militias, close to the city of Herat, were liberated and 200 militiamen joined the Mujahideen. The Heral-Kandahar road and the Heral-Islam Qala road to the border is cut by the Mujahideen.
The above victories were achieved a few days after the Soviet withdrawal, commander Allauddin said.
He was of the opinion that the fall of important cities like Herat and. Kandahar needed escalation of war all over Afghanistan so that the regime could not send reinforcement
He said that Soviets had left behind a lot of weapons to the regime forces in Herat and even given sophisticated
weapons to the militia groups.
Commander Allauddin felt the need for closer contact between commanders. He said that commanders contacted each other through couriers but now they must have wireless contacts to coordinate their military activities.
Commander Allauddin said the Soviets might continue to bomb the Mujahideen when the regime is faced with a critical situation. He predicted that such air raids against Herat may be launched from the Kushk airbase close to the Afghan border. The Soviets used Kushk airbase over the past nine years to bomb Mujahideen in the west of the country.
About the reconstruction of the country after the war, he said that it was a major task. A seven-member UN team visited Herat in the fall and discussed reconstruction issues with Commander Ismail Khan.
The UN delegation, headed by Akbar Sujlo from Turkey, stayed in the area for one week. The team came to Herat through Iran.
Allauddin Khan has come to Peshawar to get humanitarian and other forms of assistance for his organization.
About the Consultative Council which was discussing the formation of an interim government, the Mujahideen commander said that since the weak and strong parties were given the same weight, he did not believe it could work well.
An equal share for each party is not the right way to solve the problem. He was of the opinion that Jami'at was a big party but its decision-making role in the Council was equal to small and ineffective parties. He attributed this to the weak organizational structure of Jami'at.
Mujahideen leaders meet Turkey President
The Mujahideen leaders met the President of Turkey, Kinan Evran, in Islamabad on February 18.
Afghanistan has had cordial relations with Turkey and that country has supported the Mujahideen's struggle for the liberation of their country.
Prof. Rabbani, the leader of Jamiat Islami was among the leaders who met the president of Turkey.
Several thousand Afghan refugees live in Turkey. There are several million Afghans who speak the Turkish language (local dialects) and the people of the two countries believe in Islam.