AFGHANews Vol5, No 12, June 15,1989, page ©
Glimpses into the historical background of the	Part	(6)
The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
Memoirs of Dr. Tawana
Islamic Movement in exile: After Prof. Rabbani and other brothers migrated to Pakistan, the main stream of the Islamic Movement activities also moved to Pakistan. Hie Movement began constructive work to fortify its
I remained ihside Afghanistan, however. The activity of those few members of the Movement who had escaped from Daud's torture houses without fleeing outside the country or going into hiding were very limited. Our secret meetings for exchange of views lode place only after long intervals and with few participants.We tried to keep in touch with the brothers who had migrated or gone into hiding inside die country. We also tried to learn about the views and activities of those who had encircled Daud; i.e., the communists.
During that period, we used to get booklets written by Prof. Rabbani. They strongly condemned the ruling regime and analyzed the future course of events. We also used to get news of deep differences among the brothers who had gone abroad. The only thing we could do was to appeal to them and earnestly talk to them to solve their differences and stay united. Unfortunately, however, the situation deteriorated with the passage of time.
In 1975, the brothers who had gone into exile organized some aimed actions against Daud's regime in some parts of the country, such as Kunar, Laghman, and Panjshir. The original plan was to assassinate some prominent communists. Why and how the original plan was dropped and armed action was launched is not clear to me. What 1 do know is die fact that Prof. Rabbani was not responsible for the change at all. The issue of the failed armed actions intensified the differences among the brothers and finally led to the separation of the two groups.
My personal view about the armed actions at that time was the following: If they were the beginning of a long term armed struggle Which would continue until the overthrow of the atheist regime and the establishment of an Islamic Government, they deserved approval and support On die contrary, if they were just a single military maneuver, they were futile and waste of scarce manpower and resources.
In April 1978, the communist coup took place, and the situation for the Muslim became worse. Most of the
remaining members of the Islamic Movement were forced to leave the country. I also began a trip towards the land of refuge along with three companions. Unfortunately, 1 was arrested at the border post by the puppet regime authoritiesa An old-time communist was included in the group which arrested us. I tried very hard to encourage him to release us. But I failed to convince him. Our arguments lasted till 3:00 aon. finally they decided to take us to some barracks to spend the night and be taken to the city die next morning. We walked to the barracks which were located at some distance. Along the way, I and my three companions realized we had moved quite far ahead of those who had us in their custody. Thus, we began running towards the mountain as fast as we could. By the dawn, we had passed the danger zone and had entered Pakistan.
During one month that I had stayed in Kabul after April 27 coup, I had heard some good news about reconciliation and re-unity between Prof. Rabbani and Mr. Hikmatyar. I had also heard such reports that a lot of volunteers had joined them to fight against the communist regime, that they bad a lot of weapons, and that 3000 armed Mujahideen consisting of Afghan students at religious schools in Pakistan had entered Badakhshan through Chitral. Those reports had matte me and other members of the Movement think that the fall of Kabul was imminent When 1 came to Peshawar, however, I neither found peace and brotherhood among the brothers nor any sign of preparations against the enemy nor any sign of abundant weapons aid Mujahideen.
When we first reached Peshawar in mid-May 1978, we looked for Jamaat Islami Pakistan office so that it could lead us to our brothers. We found an office. We were warmly welcomed and asked whom we wanted to see. I gave die names of Prof. Rabbani, Eng. Hikmatyar and Qazi Mohammad Amin. They could find Prof. Rabbani by phone. We talked to him and he came and took us along. Later on, we were housed in Khyber Bazaar, Peshawar. I shared the place with some prominent Ulama and elders who had recently migrated. Mawlawi Said Akbar, Mawlawi Mohammad Yusuf, Mawlawi Abdul Qudoos, and Mawlawi Fayiz— who was one of my companions in the trip from Kabul to Peshawar— were included
among them.
During the first days in Peshawar, we talked to a number of brothers in an attempt to bring reconciliation and unity among the brothers. Prof. Rabbani was the first person to whom we talked. He accepted our proposal for serving as mediator. Before we could do much, however, he went on a trip to Saudi Arabia. The trip lasted for one month. After his return, the work progressed and contacts were established with both sides.
I resigned from the membership of the reconciliation delegation at an early stage. The reason was that I was aware of Hikmaiyar's view of me. He considered me as a supporter of Prof. Rabbani. Mawlawi Hamdullah from Kunar joined the delegation at a later
The delegation offered its proposal for mediation to both sides, and they agreed. Than the names of the members of the delegation were officially submitted. The two parties voiced confidence in them. Then the delegation proposed a scheme for unity which included die formation of a 21 member council. Seven persons would be from Jami'at members, seven from Hezb members, and the other seven would be die members of the reconciliation delegation themselves.
The proposal was accepted by both sides. The delegation asked both parties to introduce their candidates for the council. It took the list of each party to the other side and sought its approval. Finally the 21 member council was formed. Then the delegation requested each side to nominate someone for the chairmanship of the council who would also serve as the president of the new party comprising Jami’at and Hezb.
Jami'at nominated Prof. Rabbani. Hezb Islami, whose leader was Hikmatyar, nominated Qazi Mohammad Amin, deputy of the party. The reconciliation delegation nominated Mawlawi Fayiz.
After the names of the candidates were announced. Prof. Rabbani withdrew in favor of Mawlawi Fayiz. After that the Hezb candidate also withdrew. Thus, Mawlawi Fayiz said that once unity between the two parties was firm, he would relinquish the job. Hezb Islami, however, asked all its members wholeheartedly to support Mr. Fayiz's appointment as president of the new unity and chairman of the council.