AFGHANews Vol 5, No 1, January 1, 1989, page 4
News from the battlefields
From page (2)
Kabul regime
gets new weapons
Soviets have given a new weapon system to the Kabul regime to boost its shattering morale.
The new weapon is BM-27, a multiple barrel rocket launcher. The rocket which weighs 300 Kg. and has a range of 40 kilometers.
The Soviets have also given 80 new armored cars, both wheeled and tracked types, and some An-12 transport planes.
Earlier the Soviets gave Scud medium range missile and stationed 30 Mig-27 planes in the west of Afghanistan.
In his speech at the UN, Gorbachev proposed arms embargo to all sides of the conflict from January 1. 1989.'
The Mujahideen rejected the proposal and called it a design to protect the puppet regime in Kabul.Soviet Union also have delivered military instalations to the regime which worth billions of Dollars.The communist regime has stockpiled enough weap-ons.In the case of arms embargo the Mujahideen will suffer the most.
The two-day meeting in which Jami'at commanders from the provinces of Logar, Wardak, Ghazni, Paktia, Paktika, and South of Kabul participated was held in Logar on 5 and 6 December.
The meeting which was chaired by Dr. Fazlullah, Jami'at commander in Logar, asked for the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan after the withdrawal of the Soviet troops and rejected the idea of coalition government with the communist regime in
Editorial
From page (3)
There is also a need to inform the world about Soviet designs. The Soviet designs against the people of Afghanistan can be foiled if the Mujahideen take practical steps towards the formation of an interim administration which is broad-based. This will end the present uncertain situation which the Soviets are exploiting.
tank was destroyed and all its occupants were killed.
Fighting between the Mujahideen and communist forces in Adraskan district continues. The Mujahideen destroyed on armored car in Adeen area of Adraskan and killed one soldier on December 12.
In,a different operation on the same day the Mujahideen destroyed three trucks on Herat-Kandahar Road.
The Mujahideen attacked the communist security posts in Shakar Buz area of Gulran district on December 5. Twenty guns were captured and some enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded. One Mujahid was killed and one was injured.
On December 9 the Mujahideen captured six armed enemy soldiers in Pushtoon-Zarghoon district.
Badghis province
•The Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Naik Mohammad Khan have besieged the Kushk-e-Kuhna sub-district. Thirty militiamen defected to the Mujahideen on December 9.
•The Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Naik Mohammad Khan liberated Qadis district.
Kabul.
The meeting called on all the Mujahideen to unite their ranks and take steps to form an Islamic army. According to the resolution passed in , the meeting the formation of such an army is necessary for the victory against the enemy, preservation of law and order and protection of the independence of Afghanistan.
The commanders participating in the meeting agreed to establish closer contacts with the Supervisory Council of the North and the Mujahideen in the West
The meeting decided to establish closer contacts with the Mujahideen from other parties, create better understanding amongst the Mujahideen and pave the road for further cooperation.
This was the first meeting of the Jami'at; commanders in the region. Commander Fazlullah played a vital role in convening the meeting and passing the resolutions.
In the operations one hundred enemy soldiers were killed and some others were captured. In the fighting which lasted for five days, 10 Mujahideen were martyred and 30 were wounded.
The Mujahideen captured three armored cars, four trucks, and some quantities of arms and ammunition.
Farah province
A supply convoy of the enemy on its way to Kandahar was attacked by the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Farah I Road District on December 15 as are- | suit of which 10 enemy soldiers were killed.
Ghazni province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked Ghazni airport with heavy weapons on December 2 as a result of which a oil depot of the enemy was set on fire. Two enemy soldiers were killed in the attack.
•The Mujahideen fired mortar rounds into the enemy positions near the airport as a result of which two enemy sbldiers were killed and three others were wounded. Two Mujahideen sustained injuries in the operation.
The report adds that representatives of Jami'at Mujahideen in Ghazni participated in the regional meeting of the commanders held in Logar. They reached important decisions about the future course of action.
Jawzjan province
An important militia commander in Andkhoy district joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at headed by Commander Faizullah on November 28. Rahim Pahlawan, an officer of the regime militia forces, joined the Mujahideen bringing with him 70 Kalashinkov rifles, four mortars, four machine gun, one communication set, one jeep, four trucks and some quantities of food and ammunition.
j
Ghoor province
Ten Mujahideen were killed and ten Others sustained injuries when their positions were bombed by the Soviet Jets in Taiwara district on December 3.
Jami'at commanders meet to coordinate their actions