[			— AFGHAHe^ Vol 4, Wo 17, September 1,1988, Page?		
who s who in th, Command* PAHLAWAN Maroof son o! Ghulam Dastagir is a group commander of Jam! at operating on the southern flank of Kabul city, Maroof was horn 35 years ago in Chardeh of Kabul, His father was a blacksmith owning a shop in Chardeh. " 1 was sent to Mahmood ! Tarzi School in Kabul, After i 1 years of education due to economic problems I stopped my studies and started to help my father in his fob," said Mar oof. While Maroof was working as a blacksmith, the Communist took power in Afghanistan. "1 told my family to allow me to join the Mufahideen. Despite my father's hesitation, my mother agreed and said 1 hare four sons and 1 want all to fight the enemy of God and the people," Maroof added. He contacted Mullah • Abdul Qayoom who had a group of 25 people. ■ Commander Qayoom accepted him to work in the city of Kabul. Maroof started his ' work as a city fighter distributing night letters	e Mujahideen ?r Maroof and trying to find out good contacts After some time it was difficult to work In the city, so he came to the southern suburbs of Kabul city. There he established his first base, fn 1981, Maroof came to Peshawar to meet the leader of Jaaii'st. For some months he stayed in Peshawar. He went back to Kabul and organised his small group of about 59 at Lalander and Depak of Chardeh. Since then he has been actively fighting in and out of the city. In 1982 he launched an operation against a Russian garrison in Kabul city called "Quai Markaai" (central forces). Many Russian soldiers were killed. He took prisoner a Russian soldier. In 1983 he attacked the Soviet Embassy with rockets in which he claims some Russians were killed, 5n 1955 he captured another Russian soldier called Atexl during an operation in Tapa-e-Tajbaig. Later he exchanged that prisoner with a known commander, Toofan. ■	MOHAMMAD Ismael Tariq was born in an influential religious family in 1953 in Alishang district. Laghman province. After graduation from the faculty of Islamic law In 1974 he was appointed as a judge in * Gurziwan district of Faryab province. After the Communist coup of 1979 he become a refugee and joined jansi’at Islam!. He was appointed the commander of jami at in Laghman. jami at became an important force in that province. Having close contacts with Commander Masood he was impressed by his way of organization of the Mujahideen. He wanted to introduce this new system in his area. It proved a costly adventure. His commanders who had built their own power did not go along with his reformist steps and took % distance from him. The rival party In the area exploited the situation and Tariq was forced to abandon most of his areas. Tariq had a difficult life but he never surrendered. During these difficult periods which lasted for several years Tariq was helped by Commander Masood who saw in him the abilities of leadership. He had started to regain his influence. During the fifth session of the Supervisory Council of the North he was appointed as the head of the newly established East Zone of the Supervisory Council of the North. No doubt Tariq had a controversial personality. He had a deep knowledge about different tribes and clans. Tariq‘s steadfastness in following his aim was admiratoie.He suffered psychologically and physically to a degree which a normal man can not think of.
Jamiat commander assassinated A famous jami at commander in Laghman province was killed on August 13. Mohammad Ismael Tariq, 35, Jami'at Islam! Commander in Laghmas and the newly appointed chief of the Eastern Zone of the Supervisory Council of the North has been reported killed by the Mufahideen belonging to Hezb isfami (Hekmatyar). The sad news of Tariqs murder was received with a sense of shock and grief by the leadership of Jami at. The irony is that Hessb sent a delegation to Masood in an apparent attempt to improve the relations of Hezb with the Supervisory Council of the North but soon after the return of the Hezb delegation an important figure of the Council was killed by members of that party. (See obituary on column 3)		
		