AFGHANews Vol6, No 17, September 1,1990, page ©
From the dairy of Jehad
Supervisory Council offers model
Mohmmad Haider Reza £» My trip to the North started from the border village-of Shah Salim, Chitral, on July 12. The purpose of the trip was to see the health situation in the North.
The Swedish Committee for Afghanistan has been supporting some hospitals and climes in the area and as the Head of the Health Department of the Committee I wanted to get first , hand information about their performance. I had made three trips to the area in the past. It was a good opportunity to see the changes which had taken place after the Soviet troops withdrawal.
The Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council (SC) have built a road usable by four-wheel drive pick-up cars to the top of the famous Dora Pass. On the border the Mujahideen guards enquired about my travel permit which I had to.take from the Mujahideen office in Peshawar.
Descending the pass I reached a beautiful natural lake. Close to the lake was a tea house which offered venison and trout to its costumers. AtToop Khana, an abandoned Soviet garrison, a contingent of the Mujahideen of Commander Sayyed Najmuddin were stationed to provide security for travellers.
The trip which took place on horseback was relatively easy. It took five days to reach Worsaj, Takhar. I rented a horse for 40,000 Afghani ($71).
After two days of travelling I reached , Kuran-Monjan. The Kabul regime had established a garrison in this area but in 1987 the Mujahideen captured it Due to the good climate, fruit could be found in abundance. The area is a busy place; Lapis lazu-lite traders were occupied buying and selling the semi-precious stones extracted about 20 miles away inside the Yamgan Valley, Chi the way in there were not enough traffic because the Mujahideen had no military supplies to take in. After a day's walk from Kuran I readied Wishti, Anjuman where I spent an uncomfortable night due to bed bugs and flees.	.
. On the forth day I reached Piew, the upper part of Worsaj Valley. Piew is inhabited by Ismailias who are loyal to the Mujahideen. The toad built by die Mujahideen from die center of Warsaj reaches Piew. The Mujahideen have built several, wooden bridges useable by trucks on the Piew Riveri Piew is an extremely beautiful area.
Someone told me that Masood's family was living in a village close to Piew. I went to the village to see his one year Old ton, Ahmad. I was surprised by the simple way that Masood family lived. Ahmad was suffering for acute diarrhea. I appre-dated Masood's sense of dutyto leave his son in such a state and go to work. I was also struck with die relaxed atmosphere in die village with no anned guards in sight for die protection of the family.
After a cup of tea and giving some medical advise I continued iny downward journey. The lower you go the more beautiful the valley becomes. My horseman.
Abdul Wodood, was from a Qawanduz village of Worsaj. He asked me to visit his village and serve tea in his house. He was an
was offered cherries, the best ever I had eaten in my life. I wondered why I was torturing my family in die heat of Peshawar and was riot making one of these villages my home? The fresh air, the sweet cherries, the song of the birds and the kindness of the people all' were suggesting to me that I should return to Afghanistan. I wanted to be one of the villagers to enjoy my life close to nature.
1 spent the night in Khanaqa, the center of Worsaj. The Mujahideen have a health clinic there . The clinic has three paramedics who know how to deal with common health problems. It was well organized with a fair amount of medical supplies. The clinic had no ambulance for transporting serious patients to Farkhar and Taliqan hospitals.
The next day I took a jeep to Farkhar. The road condition had improved considerably. There were many trucks and jeeps laden with goods and people coming from or going to Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar. Along the road I saw people living a normal peaceful fife. They were busy working on their fields.
Close to Farkhar I met Dr. Sahar, the Head of the Health Committee of the S.C. We went to the Mujahideen training center to meet Commander Masood. He was busy meeting with different Mujahideen groups who had come from different places. A meeting of commanders was called by Masood to discuss the situation. Since the training camp is located away from the villages the normal life of the local people is not disturbed. Some local people also benefit from selling goods to the Mujahideen in toe center.
I greeted Masood who was as usual very warm and friendly. He asked many questions about Peshawar. It seemed to me that he was fully aware of what was happening in Peshawar. He postponed discussion about medical problems until after my visit to the Farkhar and Taliqan hospitals.
The SC has built a new hospital in Farkhar. I was told that the land of the hospital was bought by the government of President Daud but due to the communist coup the landlord never received the money. When die Mujahideen wanted to build hospital on the land, he demanded the price of his land. Enquiries showed that the man was right and the SC paid the price of the land. The hospital is run by Mir Ahmad, a local medical doctor and a graduate of the Kabul University and three paramedics. -
The hospital is electrified by a small turbine installed some mondis ago. Besides growing many types of flowers, the hospital authorities had grown different types of vegetables used to feed the patients. I found tiie hospital well-organized. Patients from all over Farkhar benefit from it The hospital had a jeep which ^ was used as an ambulance. \
Before reaching Taliqan, I was shown the: place where Jami'at commanders were killed by Sayyed Jamal last year.
Taliqan, the provincial, capital of Takhar was impressive. The paved road, the clean shops and uniformed traffic policemen gave me the impression I was visiting Kabul.
The license plates of the vehicles were
issued by the. Mujahideen. The licence plates were green with the word Takhar' and a specific number for the vehicle. Trucks and jeeps were taking people and goods to Kunduz, Badakhshan and Nahrin (Baghlan).
One of the shortcomings of Taliqan-is tiie lack of electricity. The city was electrified in the past but due to the war the power generators were destroyed. The machines, made by Semens Company, are still there but^ need some spare parts to become operational.
Taliqan is an active city. Restaurants, fruit shops and ice cream parlors wore open. I went to the grain market of Taliqan, It was evening and the shops were closed, but there were piles of wheat and other grain in the open ground unattended. It showed the level of security in the largest town in Afghanistan controlled by the Mujahideen.
The evening call for prayer was preceded with a recitation of tiie Holy Quran through a loud speaker fixed in the colter of the city.
The building of the Taliqan hospital was in good condition. It was built by the former regime.
The personnel of the hospital are those who worked there before the liberation of Taliqan. An old clerk working in the hospital wore western dress, a sign of the toler-ance of the Mujahideen. It indicated the Mujahideen made use of available manpower without imposing a new code of dress on them. A classmate of mine worked as the X-ray technician. I saw him after about 20 years.
The hospital has a women section. This section is rim by women doctors and nurses working there before the liberation of Taliqan. A lady doctor, graduated from the Medical Faculty of the Kabul University was employed one week before I arrived. The working and visiting women observe Islamic Hejab.
The registration book of tiie hospital showed that an average of 300 patience, male aid female, visited the hospital each day. The hospital has 30 bed which were occupied by wounded patients from tiie different provinces.
Dr. Nesari is the head of Taliqan hospital. After graduating from Kabul University he joined the Mujahideen and started to work in Panjshir. He was later transferred to Taliqan.
The hospital had a fair amount of medical supplies. The patients do not pay any fee for the treatment and medicine. If the needed medicine is not available in the hospital, toe patient can buy ft from tite pharmacies in the city. The hospital has one ambulance.
I was interested to know what was toe difference between toe hospital of today and when it. was run by toe communists and toe Daud regime. I was told the hospital is now in a better condition.
Programs to prevent malaria, T.B and other diseases have not expanded properly in the North because of lack of facilities and personnel. Mobile vaccine teams go from village to village to immunize children against measles, whooping cough etc., but there is a need for a comprehensive pro gram to control them. The health committee of toe S.C. had a plan to implement such a program but it needs support to do it.
After visiting Taliqan hospital I realized that toe medical help given to toe S.C.