rtFBHOH NEWS VOL.Ill, HO.2, 15/1/ 190? PBGE 2
 the conflict is not there. The cause of the conflict tos the imposition of a puppet regime through military intervention by the Soviets, If Soviets still insist on imposition of that regime which the people of Afghanistan have rejected it means that they do not want to solve the problem but to deceive the world public opinion through political maneuver.
 The Soviets are playing a clever game. They know if Mujahideen accept what they give them, it would lead to their total destruction; and if they do not accept they can be branded as war-mongers. It is not surprising to see when Wali Khan returns from Mongolia via Moscow and Kabul declares that if the resistance does not accept the puppets ceasefire they are war-mongers.
 It is also possible that KHAD will give direction to some of its "sleepers" in the small resistance groups to make use of the "reconciliation program" to join the regime. One « of their agents in Herat, named Sayed Ahmad went over to the puppet government after the announcement of ceasefire by the regime.
 The resistance should strengthen its unity to cope with the new situation This is only * possible if the resistance leaders meet regularly, agree on a political program and speak through their elected spokesman To be able to confront the enemy political offensives, the resistance should.offer alternatives in which the withdrawal of Soviet troops, the right of the people of Afghanistan for self determination and the restoration of the non-aligned and Islamic status of Afghanistan be included. The resolutions passed by OIC and UN general assembly are the ones which the resistance can insist upon -
 Mujahideen are alerted. While they have a finger on the triggers of their guns to foil any enemy ploy, they honestly emit for the Soviets to admit their mistakes of invading a peaceful neighboring country and continuation of a cruel colonial war against the people of Afghanistan for seven long years and take steps to correct these mistakes. If the colonial wishes of the Soviets and their desire for the eipantion of their empire at the expense of freedom of other nations is put a side; we do not have any other issue with the Soviets. The key to the solution of Afghanistan problem lies with the Soviet leaders While we totally reject the present compaigns launched by them and their puppets as propaganda offensive with no real intention to solve the problem, we welcome any honest step taken by the Soviets to end the occupation of Afghanistan and result in total freedom of the people of that country to choose their own destiny free from outside interference of any kind. Total freedom or the-holy war is our way.
                                          IN SEARCH FOR REAL IDENTITY
 A large number of school and university girls in Turkey have started to wear Islamic clothes and cover their heads.
 The president of Turkey showed concern about this development and called a sign of Islamic fundamentalism.
 The fact is that the people Turkey are mu slims and they have played an important role in the history of Islam. They have natural Lies with the Islamic culture and the whole Muslim world. Imposition of secular system and foreign culture througH harsh measures have not been able to cut this nation from its glorious past.
 In the past several years it has been observed that the Turkish young generation (both men and women) have turned towards true Islam. The try to apply Islamic sharia in their private and public life.
 It is a pity to see that while the absolute majority of the Turkey population are Muslims still the state secular laws forbid them from wearing Islamic clothes.