AFGHANews Vol 7, No 15, August 1,1991, page ©
Tripartite Afghan talks
is opened in
Iran and Pakistan, the two supporters of the Afghan Mujahideen, have decided to coordinate their activities Cor finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan. The two countries have already expressed their support far a political settlement of the Afghan issue in the framework of the UN five-point plan.	v
The experts of two countries met in Tehran to prepare the agenda for the three-party talks between Pakistan, Iran and the representatives of Mujahideen in Islamabad.
Dr. Ali Akber Velayati, the Foreign Minister of Iran, Akram Zaki, the General Secretary of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan and Mujahideen leaders attended the talks which began on July 29. The purpose of the talks is to evolve a formula for a political solution of the Afghan problem.
Some Weeks ago, the commander of Iranian Revolutionary Guards held talks with Pakistan and Mujahideen leaders on the Afghan issue. He- said Iran and Pakistan were coordinating their efforts on the Afghan issue.
All the supporters of the Mujahideen have expressed their support for a political solution of .the Afghan problem. They talk among themselves to coordinate their activities in support of a political settlement. US has been in contact with Iran on the issue through Switzerland government which protect Americans interest in Tehran. Saudi Arabia is being consulted by US, Pakistan and ban.
A Soviet delegation have recently visited Saudi to discuss Afghan problem with the Kingdom's leaders. A Soviet delegation is expected to arrive
Islamabad
to Islamabad for talks on the Afghan issue with the Pakistani officials in the near future. This is in reply to an earlier visit by a Pakistani delegation to Moscow.
There are two train problems on the way of a political settlement of the Afghan problem:
Firstly, the Mujahideen are not united. The friends of Afghanistan are encouraging them to evolve a common stand on the issue without which no political settlement will be possible.The Mujahideen will come under increasing pressure from their supporters to come up with a united position on the issue. The Mujahideen have formed a 28-member commission to work towards achieving that aim. No major progress has been reported by the commission so far.
Secondly, the Mujahideen's refusal to talk to Najib and its party is the main obstacle on the way of political settlement envisaged by the UN. Realizing this difficulty, die UN Special Envoy on Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, has said that the prospect for a political settlement in near future is not bright because most of the effective Mujahideen parties refuse to talk to the Kabul regime.
' A Sudanese politician, Hasan Turabi, has begun a peace mission help finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan. He came to Peshawar and met with a number of Mujahideen leaders. He promotes a political settlement of the Afghan issue based on the UN formula. He might visit Mdscow to discuss his ideas with the Soviet leaders. Turabi has been a supporter of the Mujahideen struggle.
Khalqi leader jailed in India
/' Asadullah Sarwari, the former 3,^^ by the Indian police for illegal Deputy Prime Minister of the Kabul regime, has been condemned to one year jail and paying a fine of $1900 by an
Indian court for overstaying and lack of proper documents. After release, he will be returned to Yemen.
Sarwari is a famous communist figure belonging to Khalq faction of the ruling party. When Shah Nawaz Tanai, another Khalqi figure and the Defence Minister of the Kabul regime, was preparing for a coup against Najib, Sarwari wanted to join him. He was regime's ambassador to Yemen at that time. On the way to Kabul, Najib's agents stole his passport in Delhi airport to prevent his return. Later, he was
stay and possessing no travel documents. Sarwari had a bad reputation for cruel suppression of the political opponents of the regime when he vyas in power.
UN quits Badakhshan
Several UiutedNatktnshun^nitansn agencies have evacuated their persoinel from the norther Afghan province of Badakhtitan because of heavy fruiting in thereon, agencies reported from Kabul.
The UN pulled out four expatriates and ten Afghan nationals from the provincial capital of Faizabad as fighting between government troops andMujahhfemieachedthedty.
"We have abandoned all projects in Badakh&an because of the fighting," said one pqjectwaiker.
Ismail Khan asks for aid to refugees
Commander Ismail Khan of Herat has asked for humanitarian assistance to the 35,000 internal refugees displaced by the fighting in Zindajan District which has lasted about 80 days.
In a message issued on July 19, the Mujahideen commander said the regime's heavy bombardments have destroyed the agriculture and houses, killed livestock in Zindajan forcing people to take refuge in other liberated areas. They needed food and medical assistance to prevent them from leaving the country, the message said.
Ismail Khan said the enemy offensive had been stalled with the joint cooperation of all Mujahideen parties. He revealed than regime had sent fresh troops to the battlefield and asked the Mujahideen parties outside to send their fighters to the battlefields to foil the enemy designs.
According to Iranian papers, UNHCR office in Tehran has confirmed reaching of up to 15,000 fresh refugees from Zindajan to Iran. A delegation of the organization visited the border area to see the situation; The delegation said up to 35,000 people had been internally displaced to Ghoryan and Enjeel Districts as a result of regime’s bombardments.
The otgahization said no assistance had reached Zindajan since the beginning of war in May. Iranian official have told UNHCR that about 50,000 Afghans, haverecently become refugees in Iran.