AFGHANews V0I7, No 13, July 1,1991, page
Habib ur-Rahman
Commentary by:
Unity is lesson of Khwaja Ghar
The Kabul regime's defeat in Khwaja Ghar and failure of its offensive against Khanabad District indicate a positive military change in favor of the Mujahideen in the North. The main feature of this change is unity among the resistance forces in the area.
The Kabul regime had planned to capture Khanabad District and Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar, at the start of the current year but due to Mujahideen activities this plan was delayed.
At the beginning of the current Afghan year, the Kabul regime mobilized a large force in Kunduz to capture Khanabad District but the liberation of Khwaja Ghar by the Mujahideen forced the enemy to revise its plan.
The enemy launched a counter attack against the Mujahideen in Khwaja Ghar from two directions. The Mujahideen withdrew from the town but kept control of the strategic locations and villages around the town. Kabul, regiihe which was looking for a propaganda victory was satisfied with this temporary victory.
While the enemy was making final preparation to attack Khanabad , the Mujahideen recaptured Khwaja Ghar in a surprise attack inflicting heavy losses on the enemy. The enemy launched a two-pronged counteroffensive from the directions of Dashti-i-Qala and Kunduz to capture Khwaja Ghar but was defeated leaving behind several tanks and trucks.
After loosing Khwaja Ghar, the enemy launched a massive attack on Khanabad. In the first two day the enemy made some progress in the battlefield, but on the third day, the enemy advance was blocked and the Mujahideen counter attack pushed the enemy out of the areas it had initially captured from the Mujahideen. Militias belonging to Sayyed Kayan who led the offensive in Khanabad, suffered heavy casualties and are reported to be badly demoralized.
The Mujahideen of Khanabad were united against the enemy. Some commanders belonging toHezb also took part in the attack. Commander Amir of Prof. Sayyaf played a key role in the Khanabad campaign. The Supervisory Council sent reinforcement to Khanabad auhe request of the local Mujahideen. While Khanabad campaign is not over yet, it seems that the Kabul regime has failed to achieve its objectives.
The Kabul regime bombed the dis-
trict heavily from air and ground. It used ground-to-ground rockets extensively. As a result of these bombardments, many houses and shops were destroyed. The Kabul troops deliberately set on fire the harvests causing concern among the population.
Developments in Rustaq District, west of Kookcha river, indicate a positive turn in favor of the Mujahideen. Several Hezb Islami commanders who had been kept away from fighting against the regime by their local chief, Eng. Bashir, left that party with about 2000 armed men and joint Jami'at. They included. Commander Mamor Hasan, Mamor Abdullah, Qazi Kabir and Commander Haqqani. The local militias in Dasht-i-Qala have been demoralized and are negotiating terms of their surrender. These developments has set the stage for the Mujahideen's final attack on militias in the area along the Soviet border.
Militias belonging to SABZA, headed by Mahboobullah Kooshani, suffered a serious defeat when the Mujahideen captured Khwaja Ghar which was their base. SAFZA, the other faction led by Hakim Seddiqi, is coming undo1 increasing pressure as the Mujahideen are making further advance in their territory.
At the moment, regime controls Kookcha bridge, connecting Khwaja Ghar and Dasht-i-Qala. The enemy forces on the bridge are besieged by the Mujahideen.
Regime forces in Dashti-i-Qala, led by General Begi, are demoralized. General Begi who is from Dasht-i-Qala was brought from Herat to deal with the deteriorating situation in his home town.
Unity among the Mujahideen, demonstrated in a the operations in Khwaja Ghar and Khanabad, is the most important development of the current year. In the past, the Mujahideen acted independently. The unity has built new confidence in the Mujahideen ranks. The cooperation which existed between the Mujahideen in Taliqan has now spread to Kunduz. The Mujahideen have entered a new are in their Jehad. Regime's use of force will push die Mujahideen closer together.
According to a Mujahideen source, the morale of the regime troops, especially those of Sayyed Kayan and Dostom militiamen, is very low. They are against continuation of war because of their heavy casualties in Khwaja
The Kabul regime gives very importance to the outcome of war in the North. For this reason, it has brought some of its experienced Generals like General Rafi, General Begi, Juma Asik, Rashid Dostom, and Sayyed Mansoor to the area.
The Mujahideen have captured large quantities of arms and ammunition. For an area with chronicle shortages of supplies due to seasonal supply routes, it is a good achievement. Ibis will enable the Mujahideen to continue their operation at a faster pace.
Ahmad Shah Masood has asked the Council of Commanders to escalate the operations against the enemy targets in other parts of Afghanistan. The Council of Commanders had decided in its meeting in Shah Salim that Mujahideen should escalate fighting against the weak enemy targets and gradually increase the intensify of then-operations.
The developments in the North showed that tactic adopted by the Supervisory Council was working well. Combination of frontal attacks and mobile warfare has given the Mujahideen an upper hand despite lack of proper air defense.
And finally, elimination of local communist factions in Takhar will bring permanent peace in the area.
Ishaq appoints Asif new Army Chief
President Ghulam Ishaq Khan has appointed Ll Got. Asif Nawaz Janjua to be the new chief of the army staff of Pakistan, with effect from August 16, 1991, says a notification issued by the Defence Ministry on June 11. Janjua has also been promoted to the rank of general effective August 16. He will replace General Mirza Aslam Beg.
Editorial
From page (4) ,
Now that the battlefield performance of the Mujahideen has improved, they deserve encouragement from their leaders and from their outside supporters. The Council of Commanders, formed last year, should play an appropriate role in coordinating and escalating the war in Afghanistan.
The key to peace is the proper combination of military and political efforts. If these efforts are not balanced, we can expect no peace.