AFGHANews Vol7, No 14, July 15,1991, page ©
SC reorganized
The Supervisory Council adopted a plan for reorganiza-ion in its sixth meeting, held hree months ago in Taliqan, he provincial capital of Takhar. The aim of the plan is to prepare the Council for shouldering greater military and political responsibilities in the country. .
The sixth meeting of the Supervisory Council (SC) began on April 26. Representatives from 13 provinces, including Kabul, Laghman and Bamyan, took part.
According to the plan, a General Council will be created for the SC. Ninety percent of the GC members will elected by the people and the remaining 10 percent will be appointed by the chairman of the SC from among scholars, elders and technocrats.
The capital of each province will send up to five representatives, each district up to four representatives and each sub-district up to two representatives. The exact number of representatives from each constituency will be determined by the population density and Jami'at's influence in the area. The head of provincial offices and chairmen of the committees of the SC and ranking officers of the Islamic Army will also be members of the General Council.
Elections for the General Council will be supervised by a combined delegation of the Political and Election committees of the SC.
Candidates for the membership of General Council must meet certain conditions: They should not have been found guilty of a crime by a court, should not be suspected of sympathizing with leftist groups nor be members Of rival political groups. They should have begun Jehad before 1987.
The General Council acts as a parliament of the SC. It approves the political and military programs of the
Council, and appoints the chairman of the Council along with a two-thirds majority of its present members. It also appoints 8 members to the High Council to supervise the daily woik of SC. The members of the High Council should have joined the Islamic movement before 1978.
The authority to promote or demote officers of SC and the Islamic army and supervise distribution of funds and supplies rests with the High CounciLThe chairman of the SC will also be the head of the High Council.
An Executive Council will be formed from the heads of the committees of SC. The heads of the committees are selected by the GC.
Among other issues discussed in the sixth meeting, distribution of funds and supplies to different bases and fronts was discussed. After thorough discussion of all aspects of the problem, it was decided that full authority be given to to the chairman of the SC, Ahmad Shah Masood, to allocate funds and supplies the way he deemed fiL No formula could be made because the Council's income was not fixed.
The meeting called on all Mujahideen to minimize their expenditures and take steps towards self-sufficiency. Funds saved by austerity measureswill be used for reconstruction purposes, which are very vital for the well-being of die people.
The sixth meeting also voted for the creation of an elections committee. The Council believes that the fall of the Kabul regime is imminent. Holding - elections for die creation of a new and stable government is the only logical way of solving the problem. The Elections Committee would prepare data about the strength of Jami'at and other parties and pave the way for holding elections, party or general, when the time comes.
'Pravda blames communists for present Afghan crisis
Pravda, the official organ of the Soviet Communist Party, has blamed the PDPA leadership for thepresentcrisis in Afghanistan.
The paper says the leaders of the Watan Party (formerly PDPA) oppose each other, but it expresses hope that the panywiU play apositive role in thefuture of Afghanistan.
"The people might be opposed to Najib, but this does not mean that they are opposed to the par-ty,"the paper writes.
The paper says the party leadership might replace Najib for the sake of peace, but the role of the PDPA in the future of Afghanistan cannot be ignored
The paper reveals that some members of Watan Party are in favor of convening a party conference in which dissident members of the party Aodd also take part The return of Babrak and Keshtmand from Moscow, the paper says, is a step towards that end.
This is thefirst time that Pravdahas mentioned so openly the posiMereplaceinem ofNajib.
rom Iraqi soldiers during ike Gulf War to	Afghan Mujahideen, CNN
grant scholarship for seven members
HI"
mm
The US Government refused to

These stud	iised	the	quail?
iik^	were	sup-
posed to t^Knitted to the

men from h& botse in Peshawar on I ituyy.	i
called .!Taryad, was famousjfor bp I
pro-Zhhb-. Shah. views. He wa&aiao
, . .... .
The Mitjahitfeettfired 16 ground-to-ground rockets ipto KabuTbn 8
-	g	I
'' ••• ' 1
BM^giiagBiBa	an
of illness in Peshawar on July 1.
Jurm District, Badakhshan Province! when it was liberated in 1979. SawdJ |is younger broths' of Sufi Qurbanl Mohammad, a veteran of the Islamic movement. He had since
ms
111/