AFGHANews Vol7, Noll, June 1,1991, page ©
Wisdom of*
the sages
Pity for poor ruins wise man's comfort
There was famine in Damascus: so bad that friends forgot even their closest friendships. The heavens became so miserly that not one drop of water moistened the field-edge or palm jrove. Springs that had gushed for years, suddenly dried up; only the orphan's tears still flowed; only the widow’s sighs still rose like smoke from the hovel’s chimney. The trees shivered leafless and naked as a dying beggar; even the strongest wrestlers lay listless and exhausted. Not a blade of grass remained in the mountains, and in the orchards every green twig had been devoured by locusts; men had been reduced to eating the locusts.
It was then that I ran across an old friend, a wealthy man possessing flocks and land and gold, in short a man of standing: there was nothing left of him but skin and bone.
"My dear good friend!" I exclaimed, "what ever happened to you? Tell me!"
"Use your wits, if you haven't lost them!" he growled at me. "When the answer is so obvious, it is stupid to ask. Can you not see how hardship and suf-
fering have gone beyond all limits? No rain falls from heaven! The prayers of suffering humanity fail to rise: heaven hears them not!"
I answered him: "But you have nothing to fear; poison kills only where there is no antidote. Why should the duck fear water? You have enough, so why fear if others die of want?”
My wise friend looked at me in dismay, as if I were an utter fool. "My dear fellow," he. said, "when a man's friends are drowning, can he stay comfortably on the shore? It is not poverty that makes me thin and haggard, it is pity for the poor that makes me loose my appetite. Wounds and sores are never lovely, neither on your own nor on others' limbs: though I am in good health, the very sight of weeping sores makes me shudder. How can a healthy man enjoy himself next to a groaning invalid? If I see that my poor neighbor has not eaten, how can I eat? The food sticks like poison in my throat While your friends languish in prison, can you go and have a good time and picnic in an orchard? "
'Scars of war' wins many prizes
Mehrabuddin Mastan
"Scars of War", a documen-
"Italia*
tary film about the effect of war on Afghans and Soviet soldiers, has won many prizes and been shown in several countries.
Frederic Laffont and Christophe de Ponfilly edited "Scars of War" together with Channel 7 of the French TV.
The film "Scats of War" has been already broadcasted in France, Switzerland,	Yugoslavia,
Czechoslovakia, Belgium and Canada. It was shown on May 11 by the channel 1 of the German TV and Will be shound in the near future by an Italian channel as well.
This film was presented to numerous festivals in Europe and obtained many prizes like: "Aigle d' Or", the Grand Prize of Reuil-Malmaison Festival of Film of History in October of 1990 (France), "Special Prize Jean-Louis Calderon" Scoop and Journalism
festival of Angers (France) and Prize in December of 1990.
Scars of war was screened for many weeks at the "Forum of European Televisions", George Pompidou Center, Paris.
NHtl
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
* Ija	^1	<£
Fear the person who does not fear God.
Meaning: Don't trust the man who doesn't trust in God.
May Kabul be without gold rather than without snow.
Meaning: Snow on the mountains around Kabul is more valuable to agriculture and life than gold.
A*** J*
Those bitten by a snake fear even a rope.
Meaning: Once bitten, twice shy.
The burnt child dreads the fire.
When the hands breaks it goes to the neck.
Meaning: Though a tree grow ever so high, its falling leaves return to the root.
Blood is thicker than kwater.
mealthanl -	-
.learned
hands	oMHfiij
from earning oi *r ,V: