- —	-	-	-	-	AFGHANews	Vol8,
Afghan prisoners found in Tashkent
It has been revealed that some of gotten the name of his father. He was the political prisoners arrested during shown on TV so that his relatives could the communist regime were kept in the pick him up.
former Soviet Union.	The Russian parliament has passed
A member of the Mujaddidi family a bill asking the government to present told the BBC in Islamabad that he has a resolution to the UN General received letters from Ibrahim Assembly asking for the release of all Mujaddidi and eight of his sons inform- Soviet prisoners, ing him that they are alive and in Rutskoi, .the Vice President of Uzbakistan. They were arrested during Russia and an Afghan veteran, is the the time of Taraki and their family head of the committee seeking the rethought that they were dead. Prof,	of Soviet POWs.
Mujaddidi wanted to send a delegation Since 1989, the Mujahideen have from Kabul to Uzbakistan to investi- released 11 POWs. One of them was gate the report, but Uzbakistan's gov- released by Defense Minister Ahmad eminent did not respond.	Shah Masood after the. fall of the Kabul
Nawaz Sharif, the prime minister regime, of Pakistan,- raised the issue with	'The United States is helping
President Karimov during his recent Russia and other former Soviet repub-visit to Uzbakistan. Karimov admitted Ucs to get information about their pris-that there were some Afghan political oners of war held by the Mujahideen in prisoners in Uzbakistan but he did not return for Russian help to find know whether members of Mujaddidi’s American POWs missing since the family were there or not	Vietnam war.
If the claim turns out to be true, it American officials visiting Kabul confirms the allegation by Afghans that, recently stopped in Moscow and Kiev some political prisoners were trans- 0n their way home to deliver photo-feried and kbpt in the former Soviet graphs of prisoners and other informa-Union.	tion about them.
The transfer took place at a time Washington has been helping the when the republics in Central Asia had Afghan interim leadership find about little control over their affairs. The cen- 500 children taken to the Soviet Union tral government and KGB were the true since 1980. Moscow has said the chil-riilers of the country.	dren were orphans. Afghans say they
This revelation has given hope to have been taken away, often against many Afghan families whose members toe wishes of their families, to be are missing. This will have an affect indoctrinated, on the fate of Soviet POWs caught by Russian President Boris Yeltsin the Mujahideen. In order to get the re- had asked a US Senate Committee dur-lease of their prisoners, Russia and ing his visit to Washington in June for other CIS countries should provide full help to resolve the issue of Soviet information about Afghan POWs and POWs in Afghanistan. Yeltsin prom-children taken for indoctrination.	ised to help tracking of American
One of these children, who re- missing soldiers during toe Vietnam turned from Russia after 8 years to war. it is said that some of these prison-Kabul some weeks ago, did not know ers were transferred to camps inside the'-toe address of his family and had for-. Soviet Union.
Bush asked to open Kabul mission
Ten members of the US congress have asked President Bush to extend formal diplomatic recognition to the Islamic government in Afghanistan and open the US embassy in KabuL.
In a letter written by the members of the Afghan Task Force of the congress, they have said Afghan people contributed to the downfall of communism and this contribution should be appreciated.
The failure of American government to open its embassy in Kabul could give an opening to extremists and delay the return of peace in Afghanistan, iheletter said .
The letter said the US government justified thedelay in opening its embassy on security grounds, while mbxe than 30 Countries have recognized thenew government.
The congressmen said that the US government has given billions of dollars of aid to Afghans andif itisnotfollowedup on, after the victory of the Mujahideen, it would be disasierous.
They asked secretary of state James Baker to give importance to US relations with Afghanistan.
It worth mentioning that congressional pressure was the key factor behind the Reagan Adnunisiralion’s decisiomo staitgivingsubstantialaidiotheMujahideen.
The UN has estimated that more than one million Afghan refugees will return to Afghanistan from Iran and Pakistan by the end of the current year. The figure is much higher than the earlier estimates of the world body.
The UN is facing a shortage of funds to pay for the returning refugees. For each refugee family, the UN pays $250 and gives. 300 kilograms of wheat. Each family pays about $125 for a truck to take its belongings to Jalalabad, the nearest area of Afghanistan to Pakistan. Transportation costs to the north of Afghanistan are several times higher.
Iran takes refugees, to its border free and gives 50 kilograms of wheat to each individual refugee.
The UN Secretary-General has asked the international community to provide $180 million for its repatriation program. So far, the response to the appeal has not been positive. Only $20 million has been promised to toe fund, the bulk of which is provided by toe British Government
The number of refugees returning from Pakistan has increased considerably. Recently the weekly average of people crossing the border into Afghanistan was 70,000.
The returning refugees face tremendous problems at home. They face the danger of land mines near their villages, do not have funds to rebuild their houses and are facing shortages of food.
Wood for construction of roofs, doors and windows are very expensive. Ironically, Russia, the legal inheritor of the former Soviet Union, which was responsible for the destruction of Afghanistan, has provided no funds for the.reconstruction of this country. Cash might be problem for Russia, but that country has vast amount of timber which might prove useful for the rebuilding of houses.
The British Government has announced a donation of $14 million to assist Afghan refugees return to their country from Iran and Pakistan.
Britain's minister for overseas development said the funds will be given to the UNHCR, ICRC and Afghanaid, a British relief organization, to be spent on the refugees.