AFGHAN
                  A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMi’AT 1SLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                            Post Office Box No. 264, Peshawar- Pakistan.
                                 VoL II, No. 22, 15/11/1986.
                                SOVIET INCURSION IN THE MUSLIM WORLD
 The United Arab Emirates have agreed to the opening of a Soviet Embassy in Abu Dhabi. -It is indeed sad news to see that the kilters of the people of Afghanistan are gaining a foothold in a strategic area in the Muslim world.
 The SovietEmpire is based on Marxist-Leninist ideology which denies the existence of God and considers all religious people reactionary. They hate all religions and try hard to destroy them but their enmity towards Islam is greater than to others.
 What the Soviets did to the Muslims of Centeral Asia, the North of Iran and Turkey is a black page in history. Their language, culture, places of worship, in short, every side of their material and spritual life were colonized and Sovietized. The great centers of Islamic knowledge were destroyed forever.             ^
 The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan is another example of their enmity towards Islam and Muslims. So far they have killed half a million innocent Muslims and have driven five million from their country and have destroyed 75% of all villages and towns.
 They do all this to pave their way for the expansion of their empire and the control of the world. The double game that the Soviets have played in the Middle East has made it possible for Zionists to enjoy the occupation of Islamic Palestine.
                                                    *
 The opening of Soviet embassies in the Islamic world does not serve any useful purpose. These embassies turn into the centers of conspiracies against the governments, and places for recruiting agents and creating puppet parties.
 Culturlal ties with the Soviets is a way of taking young people to the Soviet Union to brain-wash them.
 Opening the door of an Islamic country to an invader and expantionist who dreams of world hegemony, is giving hope to the invaders to continue their present policies, Once the leaders of the Resistance in Bukhara were saying “ Today Bukhara Tomorrow Afghanistan" but Afghan leaders of the time did not pay attention and we see the consequences of that indifference. Today the people of Afghanistan are saying " Today Afghanistan tomorrow the Gulf. If the leaders of the Islamic countries do not care, and remain indifferent the day which they will regret will not be too far away.
                                             A NEW TYPE OF BOMB
 Soviet criminals are using Afghanistan as a testing ground for their weapons. They have used different types of their weapons in Afghanistan to improve their performance. Recently they have started to use a new type of bomb in Ferkhar and Panjshir. The bomb explodes in the middle of the air and creates a lot of fragments which are pushed towards the ground. The fragments are similar to the fragments created by the explosion of a D-30 artillery shell. The bomb is very strong and its fragments can penetrate the ground up to 30 cm.