AFGHAN HEUS UOL.III, HD.3, 1/2/ 1967 PAGE 1
motorbike were destroyed. No figures for the casualties of the enemy were given.
                                            KANDAHAR
9/1/1987. According to a report by Kandahar office of Jami'at, Mujahideen from different districts of Kandahar attacked enemy posts in Malajat. Mujahideen first heavily pounded the enemy position with BM-12 rockets and 82mm recoilless rifles and then about 200 Mujahideen stormed the posts and captured them. Several tanks and trucks were destroyed. Enemy casualties are reported to be high but no specific numbers are given in the report. 12 Mujahideen were martyred and some others wounded.
Kandahar has been the witness of severe fighting in the last few months. Mujahideen < are bravely resisting the enemy attempts to expand its control zone.
15/1/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at under command of Mullah Naqibullah attacked the -Army Corps headquarters with BM-12 rockets. Enemy suffered heavy casualties and some vehicles were set on fire.
16/1/1987. Mujahideen attacked enemy position in Arghandab district. 3 trucks were destroyed and 12 enemy soldiers were killed and wounded
17/1/1987. Mujahideen attacked the district headquarters in Arghandab. 7 enemy soldiers were killed and wounded. Mujahideen captured some ammunition.
Mujahideen also attacked Kandahar division with heavy weapons. The enemy suffered casualties, th? number of which were not immediately known ,t
                     COUNCIL OF THE NORTH REJECTED THE PUPPETS CEASEFIRE AND NATIONAL RECONCILIATION
According to a report sent by the Council of the North, representatives of Jami'at Fronts from Badakhshan , Takhar, Baghlan, Qunduz, Perwan, Kapisa, Mazar-i-Sharif aadPaghman (Kabul) held a three day meeting from Januaiy 17 to 19 in the North to discuss the puppets ceasefire and so-called national reconciliation program.
In this historic meeting the subject was studied thoroughly and finally they supported the stand of the Alliance and rejected the ceasefire and the so-called national reconciliation program of the regime.
It was decided that similar meetings should be held in different provinces in which UlamaX Islamic Scholars), eiders and Mujahideen participate. In these meetings the enemy evil designs under the guise of ceasefire and national reconciliation program will be exposed the support of the participitants will be sought for decision of the Alliance.
The meeting also approved a special military and political program to make Mujahideen able to deal with the new situation. However the details of the program are not
disclosed
                                THE NEW SPOKESMAN OF THE ALLIANCE
Prof. Sayyaf, the leader of Islamic Alliance for Liberation of Afghanistan, was elected as the current spokesman of the Islamic Alliance of Mujahideen of Afghanistan from January 20th for a period of three months,