AFGHANews Vol 5, No 16 & 17, September 1, 1989, page Q
Fighting key to peace in Afghanistan
The Kabul regime's removal from power would paves the way for Afghans to exercise their right for self-determination and insure the return of peace in war-tom Afghanistan. Escalation of the war is the only way to achieve this aim.
The people, both inside and outside Afghanistan, expected a quick fall of the regime after the Soviet troops withdrawal, but due to different political and military reasons the regime is still in Kabul
The Mujahideen commanders believe that the factors that will lead to the fall of the regime still exist but the time that the process takes depends on the way the Mujahideen deal with the military and political aspects of the problem.
Jami'at believes in the need for the re-organization of the Mujahideen forces so that they could deal with the new phase of the struggle. Moving from a defensive phase of die war to an offensive phase requires re-organization of forces and access to enough military supplies and economic means.
Developments after the withdrawal of Soviets troops showed the need for such an organizational change in the rank of the resistance forces.
The formation of the Islamic army which is on the priority list of the Supervisory Council is a step towards achieving this aim. Through hard work a relatively large force has been re-organized.
The Supervisory Council had prepared to launch an offensive against the regime in a strategically important area when the tragedy of Farkhar in which some important figures of the Council were killed happened. The incident delayed the expected attack for sometime.
Commander Masood, the head of the Supervisory Council, told Afghanews at the end of August that his forces were ready to launch an offensive attack of limited objectives against the regime.
Why limited objectives? First of all the Mujahideen are new in these types of offensive attacks. They have to escalate the war slowly, correct their mistakes and build confidence in themselves and the people who support them.
Secondly, an offensive requires vast amounts of military and hon-military resources which die Council do not have. During the current year the Supervisory Council was given no military assistance. This put further limits on the objectives of the expected offensive.
American officials assure Afghans of continued assistance and this message reaches the Mujahideen and the ordinary people in Afghanistan through the radios but in fact no weapons and military supplies has been given to the Mujahideen of the Council during the current year.
On the other hand the Soviets continue to supply their puppets through land and air.
Despite all the difficulties the foundation for good work has been laid and in the future Afghans and their friends will be witness to important achievements by the Mujahideen.
The Mujahideen and their leaders have an important role to play
Turn to page (6)
Scaring
reporters
harms
Jehad
Engineer »Gulbuddin Hikmatyar has told his commanders to block the entry of foreign journalists and aid workers whom he accuses of espionage and creating rifts between Mujahideen groups.
Hikmatyar made die announcement as the foreign minister of AIG (Afghan Interim Government) a few days before he suspended membership of his party from the government
Hikmatyar's latest reaction against the foreign journalists came when the press was reporting the tragedy of Farkhar for which Hezb Mujahideen woe responsible.
He used the western news media to project his side of the story but the critical tone of the press made Hikmatyar angry.
Some time ago he told a BBC re-porter that whether Hezh will he in power in Kabul or not, he will not allow the BBC to have activities in free Afghanistan.
Despite this announcement he and his party officers have made interviews with BBC, especially-in connection with the Faricahr incident.
Other Mujahideen parties in the Interim Government do not share Hikmatyar's views on the so-called destructive role of the foreign journalists and aid workers.
Hikmatyar's party has taken some of the foreing journalist to Afghanistan to cover Hezb activities in the past.
Maulawi Younus Khalis, the Interior Minister of AIG said to the reporters in Peshawar that the behavior of Hikmatyar towards the foreign journalists is strange. "His party has taken a large number of them to Afghanistan in the past They were not spies in the past. Why are they called spies now?", Maulawi Khalis asked.
Mujahideen belonging to other parties think that Hikmatyar's branding of foreign journalists and aid workers as spies will have negative effect on covering of the war from the Mujahideen side. While the Kabul regime provides facilities for foreign journalists scaring a few journalists who travel with the Mujahideen will harm the cause and gives the enemy an upper hand in the propaganda war.