Vol 8, No3
February 1,1992
Iran sends relief goods to Kabul
Iran surprised the Mujahideen by sending relief goods directly to Kabul. Two plane-loads of food and warm clothes were flown to Kabul on January 9 for distribution among the needy people through mosques.
An Iranian diplomat in Kabul said that the mission was "purely humanitarian" and the criticism by the Mujahideen will not force Iran to stop it
Sending food to Kabul is seen by the Mujahideen as a sign of growing ties between Kabul and Teheran. AFP, quoting informed sources in Kabul, said the Kabul regime is discussing purchase of petrol from Iran. Kabul is facing acute shortage of petrol. Kabul is also studying the possibility of buying Iranian buses for the city transportation.
Trade delegations are exchanged regularly between Kabul and Tehran and Iranian investors are studying the possibility of investment in Afghanistan.
The Mujahideen have reported that a delegation of the Kabul regime has visited Iran recently. The Dean of Herat University, the Director of Education of Herat and the Secretary of Watan party of Herat were included in the delegation.
Iran had earlier sent two transport planes of food and clothes to the refugees in Pakistan.
Iran airlifted food to Bamyan in November. Iranian officials said the airlift was designed to prevent replacement of people who are facing shortages of food. This operation which took place with the consent of the regime provoked different reactions among the Mujahideen groups. Hezb Wahdat, based in Tehran, defended the operation on humanitarian grounds.
Some Peshawar-based Mujahideen parties accused Iran of violating Afghan territory and helping only Shia population. Prof. Rabbani asked Iranian diplomats in Pakistan to pro-
vide an exploration about the operation which was launched without his information.
Iranian diplomats said the airlift took place at the request of Hezb Wahdat and with the assistance from UN. They said Iran had airdroped relief goods in Nimroz Province, along the border with Iran, at the beginning of 1991 to help the victims of floods. Prof.. Rabbani regretted that he and the rest of the Mujahideen leaders were not consulted by Iran about the airlift
In a related development the UNHCR has opened its office in Mashed, Khurasan Province, where most of the Afghan refugees live. Iran has also asked for convening of meeting of its officials with the representatives of UNHCR and private relief organizations in Mashed in the near future to discuss ways of repatriation of Afghan refugees. Iran is receiving $13 million per year for the Afghan refugees from the UN.
Shoora-i-Ittifaq has said Iran has decided to expel all the unregistered Afghan refugees from that country.
Iran has asked the Mujahideen parties based in Iran to introduce the unregistered Afghans to the government so that they could be expelled.


s
Bound sets Of the 24 issues of AFGHANews 1991 are available for sale at AFGHANews P.O.Box 264- Peshawar Pakistan Price in Pakistan Rs. 30, abroad $10 (including airmail)
STOCKS ARE LIMITED
J
Kabul returns former king's properties
The Kabul regime has announced returning of properties of the family of the former king , confiscated in May 1978 by the communist regime.
The citizenship of the former long was also restored by Najib in September of 1991. The former king is living in exile in Rome since 1973.
Najib’s moves are seen as part of his government's efforts to woo the exmonarch to join the national reconciliation program.
Pro and anti Zahir Shah meetings have been held in Peshawar and Quetta. These meetings were a reaction to the meeting between Sardar Abdul Wali, the son-in-law of the former king, and Asif Nawaz, the Chief of the Army Staff of Pakistan, in Rome.
A group of students staged an anti Zahir Shah meeting in University Town, Peshawar, on January 21. They belonged to the Islamist parties.
On the same day, some elders, commanders and intellectuals, belonging to the moderate parties, held a meeting in support of the former king.
Iranian Ambassador in Pakistan Jawad Man soon has disputed the reports that Iran had agreed to the return of the former king as the head of the interim government "I cannot foresee a role for him," he said
Masood rejects
Shah Masood, the head of Supervisory Council, has denied the allegation that he has held discussion with the officials of the Kabul regime.
Nawa-i-Waqt, a Pakistani daily published in Urdu, had reported, quotirtg Afghan News Agency, that the Kabul regime had offered four million dollars to Masood to prevent him from launching attack on Kabul.
Commander Masood said that neither he nor any of his officers had met with regime people. " No such an offer has been made to him or any of his officers," Masood said.
Masood described the report as fabrication of some circles to defame him.