AFGHANews Vol 7, No 19, October 1,1991, page 0
risking his life.
While we were drinking tea, five young Arabs arrived at the tea house. They had worn camouflaged uniforms and were riding horses. The leader of the group was Huzaifa, die son of late Abdullah Ezam who was killed in a bomb explosion along with his two of his minor sons in Peshawar two years ago. Ezam was die head of an Arab charity organization helping the Mujahideen. He was the strongest supporter of die Mujahideen among Arabs. Other members of die team were students of schools from some Arabic countries who wanted to visit Badakhshan during their summer vocation.
Along the way from Eskatol to Zebak, we passed by a school. After four hours of walk we reached Zebak. Zebak is a flat area at the junction of three rivers. The low lying areas form grazing ground for cattle. Farms and villager are close the mountains. We had our breakfast in a tea house along die road. We were offered yoghurt, bread and tea. While we were serving our breakfast, regime's jets flew high in the sky.
A group of children were on their way to Pakistan. They were students of religious schools who were returning to Pakistan to resume their studies after spending their summer vocation with their families.
In Zebak, one could see the ruined buildings of an abandoned Soviet base. Several destroyed armored vehicles were seen in the river. Soviets had a garrison in Zebak from 1980 to 1988. This was their operational headquarters for many parts of Badakhshan.. They used to keep. 36 helicopters in the garrison which were used to attack the Mujahideen positions, to escort convoys and to transport goods and soldiers to the outposts.
Zebak has been liberated three time form control of the communists in the past 11 years. It was liberated in die Fall of 1979, in the Summer of 1988 and finally in the Summer of 1991.
The people of Zebak, like the people of Eskatol and Sanglech are folio wets of Ismailia sect They speak in Persian. They earn their living by farming and keeping animals. We passed by a village, called Gulkhana, where one could see die abandoned position of the communists. Two old women showed us the way to the bridge.
Li the afternoon, we readied a Mujahideen post at die upper end of the Wardooj Valley. Huge quantities of arms and ammunition were stockpiled along the road. There were some trucks and tanks as well. They were captured from the enemy in Zebak and Eshkashim and were temporarily stored there to be transported to safer areas. We had missed the only truck going from Eshkashim to Baharak dial day. Lade of fuel has limited die number of vehicles on that road.
We were offered tea by the Mujahideen. We reached Rabat, a village dong the road, in the late afternoon and derided to stay there. Soviets had established a base in Rabat. Arab friends joined us in die evening. We were offered tea and bread by die villagers who looked extremely poor. Most of the houses in die village were
destroyed in the earthquake at the beginning of this year. An old man complained that die military activities of the Mujahideen did not allow him to finish building of his one story house. We spent the night in the village mosque. Rabat is die first village of Wardooj Valley. From Toop Khana to Zebak there is about SO kilometers of distance which was marked by a survey team afCBR.
Li the morning, we continued our journey on foot We passed by a Soviet abandoned base close to a bridge. I was told that die bridge was built with the help of West Germany before die communist coup of 1978.
After three hours of walk among the fields, we reached the village of Kazden. I saw a few plots of poppy in this village. This was the first time in my life to be so close to such a notorious plant There was a school in the village. Children were on their way to school. People were working on their fields and a group of people were on their way to Pakistan. Among than was a man suffering from Malaria. I gave,him. a few tablets of ease his pain. Malaria is a problem in die liberated areas of Afghanistan.
A BM-21 multi rocket launcher was parked iii die shade of tree. This was captured in Zebak. We were offered tea and bread ini die tea house along the road. The owner of the tea house told us about the fall of a Mujahideen's truck into die river in Zebak a few weeks ago killing 27 Mujahideen. The bodies of some of those drowned were still missing.
' -After an hour walk, a pick-up van arrived from die direction of Eshkashim with a large number of people on bowd. The van stopped to pick me up. Arab guests and our friends were already in the van . I was offered a place close to the driver. The van which had. the capacity of about IS people was carrying 36 passengers in a narrow and winding road. The technical condition of die van was not good either. All this meant a danger for us but because we were so tired, we considered the over crowded van a mercy of God. The good tiling about travelling on foot is that one can see people and die land more closely: We passed several - villages and abandoned posts of Red Army along the road very quickly. .
At noon, we reached die village of Chakaran. This is die native village of Najmuddin, the most powerful commander of die Mujahideen in Badakhshan. This area is the widest part of Wardooj Valley. The Mujahideen have begun to build a hospital, a school and a market in the village. Aerial bombardments had halted the wink on the project In the single tea house in the village, we had grapes, tea and soup. After offering noon prayers, we continued our downward journey arid reached Baharak in die afternoon.
Wardooj Valley which starts from Zebak and ends in Baharak has an approximate lenght of 80 kilometers. The upper part of die valley is narrow and rocky. The lower parts are wider and more fertile. This valley has been die original base of Commander Najmuddin. The valley was
liberated in 1979. In 1980, the Soviets captured Zebak and and Baharak, the two ends of the valley, and used to pass their supply convoys through the valley. The Soviet troops had crossed attacked Badakhshan from the direction of Eshkashim. Until 1985: the Soviets had no permanent bases in Wardooj, Their convoys passed through die valley to reach Baharak and Faizabad. The Mujahideen made use of hit and run tactics against die enemy. In 1985, Soviets occupied Wardooj and established several gamsans along die valley. Sayyed Najmuddin was driven out of Wardooj dong with 700 of his Mujahideen. He went to form to prepare for a counter offensive. Situation in form was not very good on those days. The Mujdiideen had developed differences among themselves. He failed to muster support from other Badakhshan commanders. Most of his Mujahideen aban doned fighting and he was left with about 100 men. This apparent defeat, however, proved to be the beginning of a new era of success for him. He came in contact with Aryanpoor and Masood and made dose friendship with them.
After a few months, Najmnddin returned to the valley and by launching small scale guerillaattacks liberated most parts of the valley in a short period of tune. Wardooj became die backbone of his military structure which covers a large vea.
Shopping list
Following is the price list of some essential goods in Jonn District of Badakhshan at the beginning of September 1991:
Ricea	3,400 Afs/Ser*
Wheat	1/100 Afs/Ser
Table salt	1,400 Afs/Ser
Ghee	10,000 Afs/Ser
Sugar	5,500 Afs/Ser
Tea	18,000 Afs/Ser
Lamb	4,000 Afs/Ser
Peas	2^)00 Afs/Ser
Potatos	600 Afs/Ser
Tomatos	1,000 Afs/Ser
Barley	1,000 Afs/Ser
Deisil	2400Afs/gaL
Petrol	9,000 Afs/ gal.
Eggs	30 Afs each
Soap	250 Afs/ cake
* Ser is a unit of weight equal to seven kilograms. Eadi dollar is exchanger with 1,000 AfhanL
A manual worker earns a daily wage of 1,500 AfghanL