AFGHANews Vol 6, No 3, February 1,1990, page Q
Editorial
Elections for Shoora unable to solve all our problems
The Afghan Interim Government has proposed a plan to hold elections for a broad-based Shoora. According to the plan each district will elect ten people for a Shoora and the electoral procedure will be decided by die people in each district separately.
This plan has taken into account the war condition in Afghanistan and an attempt has been made to create a Shoora representing all parts of Afghanistan. The program is well-thought and an very practical. In Jami'at's opinion, if it is implemented it will lead to the creation of a representative Shoora.
If the proposed election is completed successfully, it will be a major political step towards achieving victory against the Kabul regime.
A successful election will unite the resistance on a platform. It will give credibility to the government they choose, and that government can forcefully challenge the illegal Soviet-backed Kabul regime. This government will be credible in the eyes of international community as well as the eyes of Afghans.
Successful completion of the election will have a positive affect on the military activities of the Mujahideen and pave the road for more coordinated operations against the enemy.
The program will be successful when the effective forces in the resistance support it.
The program has faced problems from the start Shia parties and Hezb ISlami (Hikmatyar) have shown reservations about the timing and procedures of the proposed elections.
The interim government says it is busy in negotiation with the concerned parties to get their agreement to die program, and it is open to suggestions regarding the practical aspects of its implementation.
But one should not think that holding elections will solve all the problems the resistance is facing. The major problem for any government of Mujahideen will be the military defeat of the Kabul regime. The Soviets and the regime are not ready to give the Afghans the right of self-determination.
Due to the Mujahideen's shortcomings in the battlefield, the Soviet Union has become less flexible towards a political solution, and the Kabul regime has built self confidence and has become more hopeful about its own survival.
Even if a broad-based government is formed through holding elections, it has to play an key role in shaping the battlefield situation to prove its credibility and impose its control over the resistance forces. Without such a role it will not be able to play the part it is intended for.
The resistance has no option but to have a a two-track program with both military and political components. Any political effort without strong military pressure will not achieve its purpose.
The resistance has spent one year in deep political debates at the expense of attention towards military activities. Will the five crucial months ahead be spent in the same way?
Mujahideen leaders should not expect too much from a government endorsed by an elected Shoora. It certainly will have positive effects but major problems will still be there.
Afghan people and the world expect the Mujahideen to play a more effective military role. What the resistance has achieved in the past year does not meet the reasonable expectations of the world.
Let us go ahead with the elections, but not forget the role of military action at this crucial moment. If the resistance does not improve its military performance, its political efforts will be wasted.
The resistance has potential to do much better than it has been doing, but it requires attention by Mujahideen leaders and support from friends.
® vn@ w
Dust of the Saints
Dust of the Saints is the name of a new book by Radek Sikorski, an English young writer, photograther and journalist, about the western parts of Afghanistan.
Radek went with the Mujahideen to Herat province in 1987 to report on the war. He entered Afghanistan from Quetta in Pakistan and it took him several weds to reach Herat
Radek was a witness to a big gathering of Mujahideen commanders in Saghar where he met Commander Ismail Khan. He was impressed by the Mujahideen commander.
He continued his trip to see the situation around the historic city of Herat Durig his stay in one village, Soviet warplanes bombed the village, killing dozens of people. He took a picture of a family who had beat buried under the rubble of their destroyed house. This picture earned Radek the first prize for spotnews by the World Press Photo Foundation in 1988.
Radek Sikorslri was boro in Poland in 1968. He helped the Solidarity movement and in 1981 emigrated to London. His Polish background made him interested in covering the Afghan war as a freelance journalist
Radek has dedicated his book to the memory of his countryman Andy Skrzypkowiak, a freelance cameraman who was killed by some miscreants during a trip to Afghanistan in 1987.
Radek's account of his trip during the war, to an area where few Western journalist have travelled, contributes to understanding of the situation under which the Afghan Resistance fought the Russian invaders. It tells the story of an ancient civilization razed to ground by destructive power of the Red Army.
Dust of the Saints is printed in 274 pages by:
Chatto & Windus Ltd 30 Dedford Square London WC1B3SG
The book is decorated with some beautiful pictures taken by the writer, and supplemented with illustrations and maps to make it easy for the reader understand. The cover is adorned with a picture of Commander Ismael Khan on horseback.
The price of a hard cover copy of the book is £ 14.95 net in UK.