AFGHANews Vol8, No 7, April 1,1992, page ©
UN’s Afghan train put on new tracks
Najib’s announcement that he Afghanistan. Such a request by the re-
was ready to hand over all powers of the state to an interim government formed through the UN peace process and that he will not insist on his own participation in the process was seen by the UN as a breakthrough. The UN has suggested modification of its peace plan to hasten the process.
The announcement came one day after the fall of Mazar, the second most important city controlled by the regime.
The UN Secretary-General, US, Pakistan and Zahir Shah welcomed the announcement describing it a major step towards achievement of peace.
The Mujahideen leaders were not enthusiastic about Najib's offer. Prof. Mujaddidi hoped that Najib was honest in his statement Other Mujahideen leaders said Najib's statement was imposed on him by the developments and his resignation alone was not enough. They made it clear that no member of Watan Party was acceptable to them.
Najib also delivered the list of 150 men that he wanted to-see the proposed assembly and the list, according to Kabul radio, included the name of Watan Party members.
The head of the regime made his statement after intensive consultation with the party members in the government and the security forces.
When Sevan was busy discussing the result of his trip to Kabul with the Pakistani and the Mujahideen leaders, he was asked by Najib to return to Kabul and discuss his plan with the members of the Central Committee of the Watan Party. When he was in Kabul, a huge explosion rocked Kabul, which was followed by gunfire close to the palace of Najib and Balahisar Fort Firing continued at least for one hour. The Mujahideen sources reported that the hard-liners, opposed to the political solution, were responsible for the incident. The Kabul regime denied the report of infighting and attributed the explosion to fire which spread to an ammunition dump
Sevan was still negotiating with Najib in Kabul when situation in the north deteriorated. Roadblocks disturbed supply of food and fuel to Kabul causing prices of essential goods to rise sharply.
Soaring prices caused by roadblocks forced some members of the Watan Party to suggest stationing of the UN peace-keeping force in
gime will be vigorously opposed by the Mujahideen who refuse to stop fighting against the regime. The Mujahideen say that they will cooperate in search for a political settlement but continue to exert military pressure on the regime.
The former king and his supporters who view the UN plan as unique opportunity for returning to power in the country were alarmed by the recent developments in the north. In an interview with BBC, the former king has criticized, for the fust time, what he called an irresponsible minority group and some countries who might prevent the peace progress.
After the second round of his visit to Kabul, Sevan said he wanted to hasten the peace process so that the chances for peace are not lost. He wants to abandon his multi-stage peace process in favor of a one-stage gathering to formulate the modality for an interim government
Developments in Mazar-i-Sharif forced the Mujahideen to intensify their consultations to find a consensus formula for the formation of an alternative administration to replace the Najib.
Taking to reporters in Kabul, Sevan criticized some Mujahideen leaders for allowing foreign individuals to speak on behalf of the Afghan people. It was an indirect reference to the statements issued by Qazi Hussain Ahmad, the leader of Jamaat Islami of Pakistan, in support of some Mujahideen leaders who oppose the UN plan. Sevan said UN was trying to end foreign intervention in Afghanistan. It seems however that Sevan does not mind intervention by foreign individuals who support the UN plan. He has not criticized the statements made by Wali Khan, a Pakistani politician, in support of the Kabul regime.
ftTQOiMfezus zinshes a happy cEid-uC-J:itre to its 9/CusCims readers
Editorial
From page (4)
cusing some Mujahideen parties Of involvement in activities of ethnic nature is a peculiar thing that raises questions about intentions of its authors. What Jami'at and some other Mujahideen have done is that they exploited the dispute among the regime factions to take the military initiative in their own hands. Liberation of many districts and half of Mazar must be a good news to those who like to see the imminent fall of the regime.
Foreign countries and international organizations involved in Afghanistan should avoid taking such steps that give false hope to the dieing regime of Najibullah. Any attempt to give undue importance to the Kabul regime in the political process aimed at solving the issue will prolong the sufferings of the people and solution of the issue.
Iran criticizes UN aid policy
An Iranian official has complained that the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) has spent more money for Afghan refugees in Pakistan and less on the Afghan refugees in Iran.
An official in charge of the refugees of Iran's interior ministry Haji Arab said in a press interview in Teheran that between 1983-90, UNHCR allocated $84,812,000 for Afghan refugees whereas during the same period it spent $406,513,000 for Afghan refugees in Pakistan.
He alleged that political motives had affected the UNHCR’s decisions.
The UNHCR began its services in Iran in 1983 with a limited program and slightly increased its aid to the Afghan refugees in 1987. He expressed the hope that international organizations would consider the issue of Afghan refugees in Iran more seriously.
Help us publish AFGHANews!
Please send your donations to the following account number:
JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd.
Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan