j considerable number of	j
j refugees also have sought	|
I refuge in Western -Europe and j | the USA.
Pak 1st an will be the place where elections could be held . easily among the refugees.
Since the Mujahideen Alliance is based in Pakistan, there are close connections between the parties and the refugees in the camps, in order to hold elections in the camps co-operation with the Refugee authorities of Pakistan is very important Holding elections in Irm ; where about- two mill ion Afghans are living is questionable, It is not Known yet how the government of Iran will reset towards the I proposal, In Iran, most of the j ; refugees do not live In j camps. They are scattered in j different cities and holding j j elections in that type of j \ situation Is difficult,	j
The Iran-based Resistance I parties are not part of the Alliance based in Peshawar, j !: therefor, their cooperation in 1 1 this respect cm ml be predicted.
Some of the parties within the Alliance do no? have a large number of followers I among refugees in Iran, thus I they may not be very much j interested in bold mg [ electigas there,
Arrangements for the i refugees living m countries 'j other than Pakistan and Iran . Is also very difficult. There ; is ao population census and nc easy way to conduct fair and free elections in these : countries.
Therefore for the mult of ; any elections outside Afghanistan the eyes must be i focused on Pakistan where the bulk of refugees live.
The situation Inside is j more complicated. The . | country is divided Into liberated areas controlled by the Mujahideen and occupied areas controlled by the Soviets and their puppets. Although the Resistance controls the major pan of the
:______________________________
Af&SAKews Vail Hail Juiy 13.1985, Page?
Sand, due to the war the population is displaced and a large portion of pro-Mujahideen people live in1 the Soviet-controlled zones. They will mt be able to participate in ®ay elections.
The liberated areas are also divided between different parties. These divisions make conducting a smooth election less possible. More than, that no pogwlatioa'ceoaus is available in liberated area® and elect-oral laws are not- yet-made ,
It seems that holding fair and free elections inside Afghanistan before the end of the war is not a- practical option.
More than that, holding of elections could give a boost to rivalries between the Mujahideen parties and sharpen their differences. ■ Any program to hold elections which is not successful could cause at legation of rigging by one side or the other which will be a blow'to the Resistance.
Having m mind all the above problems the program to hold elections within $0 days is an ambitious program with little chances of success.
The parties who support holding of elections know ail the above problems. Their first prize I© feat they seem good in the eyes of the world. The call for elections will be interpreted as the sign, of the confidence of these parties In the support of peop le for them.
If the elects on is held the chances that these parties may win more support among the refugees In Pakistan is stronger, Is case holding elections In other areas (Iran, Afghanistan and the rest of the world}'faces problems— as is predictable— these parties use the result of elections in Pakistan as a sign of their strength.
This is one of the reasons why some parties are not m ! favor of holding general I . elections before fee liberating
of the country .They are afraid that fee result of a premature election will paint the wrong picture of the relative stre&ght of fee Resistance parties.
Those who may score more votes In the Refugee camps in Pakistan may not fee the one with military strength inside.
These parties also argue that since everything has a temporary nature there is no seed to spend a lot of time and energy-for a temporary set-up.
They believe that as Iona as the Soviets- are in the country and the puppets have not bees defeated any attempts to weigh the parties through political elections is a waste of time and diverts ’attention from the real purpose of continuing the war.
Scholars hold seminar on Afghanistan issue •
A two day seminar on the "Geneva accord and future of Afghanistan" organized fey lafoita-e-al-Alam Islami was held ta Islamabad on 25 June,
The seminar passed a resolution praising the struggle of the Afghan people and the sacrifice of one million Afghans in the cause of freedom and independence.
The resolution also called upon ail states, particularly the Muslim states to contribute towards the reconstruction of Afghanistan alter fee complete Soviet withdrawal and fee establishment of. an Islamic and representative government,
The seminar was addressed by prominent scholars, and intellectuals from different Islamic slates. Some Mujahideen representatives were also present.
The simlnar was chaired by Secretary General of Rafcita, Dr. Abdullah Omar Piaseef,
■

f
!