AFGHANews Vol 6, No 15, August 1, 1990, page ©
Herat Province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at destroyed six tanks and five trucks and killed a considerable number of the regime troops in Karukh District on July 21. The Mujahideen seized two mortars, four machine-guns, 25 Kalashnikov rifles and some ammunition.
The enemy convoy was on its way to the Karukh coal mine when it was attacked. As a result three villages were freed from the control of the communist forces.
Karukh is located about 90 kilometers east of the city of Herat. In the attack, under the command of Wazir Khan, three Mujahideen were also killed.
Parwan Province
The Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council of Jami'at, under Commander Mia Gul, attacked enemy forces in Goga Manda of Koh-i-Safi, destroying six tanks, tWo trucks and one heavy machine-gun. They killed 30 enemy soldiers, wounded six and captured 15. The Mujahideen lost four men and six Mujahideen were injured
The Mujahideen seized 40 Kalashnikov rifles, three PK machine-guns, four rocket launchers and one 120mm mortar.
The forces of the regime in Goga Manda are responsible for security for Kabul and the Kabul-Jalalabad road.
Kabul Province
One tank and one truck were destroyed and seven regime soldiers were killed and four were wounded when a landmine exploded on 16 July in Deh-Sabz District.
The mine was planted by Mullah Fazel Ahmad's men, Jami'at commander in Dehsabz and Koh-i-Safi.
Faryab Province
Severe fighting between the Mujahideen and regime forces has taken place east of Maimana city, Hindukush News Agency reported.
The regime militia and secret police with artillery support attacked the Mujahideen positions in Khawja Qotoury on July 22. The Mujahideen resisted the attack, killing 11 enemy soldiers and injuring many others.
The next day, the Mujahideen captured the strategic Shahsawar Hill after killing 20 enemy soldiers and capturing six.
In two days of fighting the Mujahideen under the command of Sayyed Alauddin seized 17 Kalashnikov rifles and two heavy machine-guns.
One Mujahid was killed and seven were injured, the report adds.
Fighting between the two sides continues.
Baghlan Province
' Regime warplanes bombed the Mujahideen hospital in Andarab District killing a doctor and wounding six people. The hospital which was run by the Supervisory Council in Deh Salah, was bombed by four regime jets two weeks ago. Dr. Mir Ahmad, the head of the Health Committee of SC in Andarab, was killed in the incident and the hospital was destroyed.
On the same day, two people were killed in Rajgah, in the lower part of Andarab Valley, when the regime jets bombed the area.
Meanwhile Jami'at commander in Khenjan, North Salang, has been killed with two other Mujahideen in an am-' bush set up by the regime forces.
Commander Nasim was active Mujahideen leader who led more than 50 armed Mujahideen.
Balkh Province
Eight regime soldiers stationed in a security post in Deh Dadi joined the Jami'at Mujahideen on July 24. They brought with them 19 guns.
Twenty armed soldiers defected to the Mujahideen in Daulat Abad District on July 24. They brought with them a truck.
Cmdr. Jaafar killed in Peshawar
Sayyed Jaafar, Jami'at Chief Commander in Aqcha District, Jawzjdn Province, was killed in Peshawar by unknown gunmen on July 12. In the incident one Mujahid was also killed and seven Mujahideen were wounded.
Jaafar and his Mujahideen were ambushed when they were returning in a pickup from a refugee camp to Peshawar. The attack took place inside the camp and the terrorists used automatic guns. No arrests have been made yet.
In the burial ceremony of Jafaar senior members of Jami'at spoke and called his death a great loss to the Mujahideen.
Khurasan refugee camp is located outside Peshawar and has refugees from northern Afghanistan.
Jaafar was a famous Jami'at commander in Jawzjan. He started Jehad after the the communist coup of 1978. Although he had received no formal education, he knew the art of war and dealing with people well. Commander Jaafar led more than 400 armed Mujahideen and controlled vast areas of Aqcha District. His base is located about 8 kilometers from the city of Aqcha.
Jaafar came from a Sayyed family linked to the Safi Pushtun tribe. Sayyeds are descended from the Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) and are respected by the people on religious grounds. The people in Aqcha also respectd Jaafar because of his good character and pleasant manners.
Commander Jaafar has four brothers two of whom are Mujahideen. One of his brothers, Sayyed Abdul Basir, was appointed by Jami'at to lead Jaafar's Mujahideen after he was killed.
Jaafar has left behind seven children and a widow.