AFGHANews Vol 5, No 23, December 1,1989, page ©
Editorial
Arms embargo will weaken Mujahideen of Afghanistan
The Mujahideen want to overthrow the Kabul regime and establish in its place a representative government acceptable by the majority of Afghans. This aim will only be achieved when the resistance is militarily strong.
Developments after the Soviet troops withdrawal showed that the Mujahideen, in order to gain the upper hand in fighting against the Soviet-backed regime, need to re-organize themselves, evolve a workable military and political strategy, unite their ranks and get enough arms and ammunitions to fight an offensive war.
The Mujahideen have been receiving military assistance from abroad to fight the Soviets and will need to receive more to deal with the communist regime.
Mujahideen leaders and field commanders have been asking for more arms and ammunition to continue fighting.
The new position of Hezb Island leader, Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, that sending of weapons to both sides of the conflict should stop, is strange. There has been no military development to justify this shift of policy.
The question of an arms embargo of both sides in the conflict was raised by US before signing of the Geneva accords. The Soviet Union rejected the offer.
When the Soviet troops left, they handed over military installations and great quantities of arms and ammunitions to Kabul regime.
After the withdrawal they continued to provide more weapons and ammunition: The regime now has more weapons than it can use.
When there was no room for sending more weapons, the Soviet Union proposed an arms embargo to the two sides of the conflict. The Mujahideen and their supporters rejected the offer, on the grounds that it would put the Mujahideen in a weak position vis-a-vis the communist forces.
The statement of the Hezb leader that, if Soviets stop sending arms to the Kabul regime, he will make sure that no aims reaches the Mujahideen, raise many questions about the preventive mechanism he has in mind.
It seems that rivalries with other Mujahideen parties has given shape to this proposal. Hezb has been receiving more military assistance than other parties, and an arms embargo will leave Hezb better-armed than other groups in the resistance.
The argument that foreign assistance paves the way for interference of foreigners is not a new thing, because foreign support to the Mujahideen started immediately after the Soviet invasion.
The major problem to the resistance is getting rid of the illegal regime of Dr. Najibullah. An arms embargo will put the regime in a better position vis-a-vis the resistance forces.
If there is room for complaint about shortages and the way supplies are being distributed, other parties of the resistance have more reason than Hezb. Party interests must be made subordinate to the interests of Afghanistan.
Jami'at believes that a honorable solution to the problems of Afghanistan is only possible when the Mujahideen are militarily strong. Without supplies of arms and ammunition, the Mujahideen will face tremendous difficulties.
From the Diary of Jehad
From page (6)
Gulbahar Textile Mills is controlled by Hezb. No one remember any major fighting between Hezb and the regime forces to cause its liberation. Local people said Hezb got control of the Mills through a secret deal with the Kabul regime. The Hezb commander in the area, Ustad Farid, signed an agreement with the regime at the beginning of the year, based on which the regime evacuated its forces and Hezb took control of it Gulbuddin Hikmatyar visited the mills during his recent visit to Shamali.
Jami'at people said that they were also contacted by the officials from the Kabul regime, and were offered a deal concerning the delivery of the textile mills which they rejected.
Our return trip to Pakistan was quick. I had breakfast in Rukha, and lunch in Peshawar on the sixth day of my journey. This was possible because part of the trip was covered by jeep. Saranwal Mahmood lent us his jeep to take us to Paryan. His car was in good shape, but his driver was a adventurer who drove the jeep on a mountainous road with a failed brakes.
Twice we nearly fell into the river when he almost lost control of his brakeless jeep. The agony of walking kept us seated in the jeep. When we reached the end of the road, I begged him to be careful on the way back. He promised do so, but I was not sure.
AIG sends team to explore mines
The Ministry of Mines and Industries of the AIG has begun its practical work by sending a team of experts to survey coal mines in the country, MEDIA reported
Eshan Jan Areef, the Minister of Mines and Industries, said that similar teams will be sent to survey other minerals like table salt and lapiz lazuli.
The ministry also has prepared the ground for establishing light industries to provide work for die refugees.
Coal, table salt and lapiz lazuli mines are located in the liberated areas of Afghanistan.