                 S          .H.....^9       ,1 |    ^ii^^i^m, I,   ^
  14/9/1986. Mujahideen from Jami’at launched a stand off attack with 107mm rockets on the enemy units in Chawki district. The shells landed on the target but so for we have not recieved details of the emeny casulaties.
  8/9/1986. Mujahideen of Jamiat attacked the enemy post in Noorgui subdistrict with 107 mm rickets,No more detatils are is availible,
                                          REPORT FROM GHAZNI
  29/8/1986 The enemy troops attacked Gadakhali village of Moqor district at 10 am. Mujahideen engaged the enemy and fighting continued fop two hours.One helicopter was hit by a ZPU which damaged it and forced it to leave the battle scene. One APC was destroyed by RPG fire. 3 AK-47s'which were in the APC burned and Mujahideen have sent them to Ghazni to be repaired. Mujahideen had no casulaties and no figure for the enemy cavities is given. The report adds that Mujahideen of Jamiat, NIFA and Harakat are cooper ting with each other against the communists. The Jamiat commander in the area is Shair Khan Ahmadi.
                                      A LETTER FROM A COMMANDER
  Afghan News recently recieved a letter written by Esmaeel Khan the Chief Commander of Herat on April 14th to the office of Herat in Peshawar.Following is the translation of some parts of the letter.
  The weather in Herat is very pleasant. Thanks be to Allah the moral among the Mujahideen is very high. Mujahideen in the area are cooperating with each other.
  In a series of meetings which were held in Herat the commanders discussed the future plan of action against the enemy and we talked about actions to take place on April 27 (The anniversary of the communist coup) . All the commanders were present at the meetings.
  The house of Abdul Karim from Karukh ( A district of Herat) was attacked by a large force. 12 Mujahideen present there were martyred and the communists captured one DschK, one Mortar and 12 guns.The Communists looted some villages In the area.
  As usual we are facing shortage of arms and ammunition, especially after we lost some trucks full of ammunition as the result of the enemy's aerial attack. We are facing shortages of medicine for our hospitals. Our Mujahideen do not have proper clothes and shoes. Food is also a problem for the Mujahideen and the civil population. As a result of continuous bombardments and offensives very few cattle can be found in the area. The price of Meat and other food stuff has gone up and we are not able to give meet for our mujahideen even once a week. More important we do not have the money to buy what is locally availible. Your urgent attention is needed.
                           (
                                                 Yours
                                      Commander M, Esmaeel