AFGHAN
NEWS
                  A. FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                             Post Office Box No. Jo4. Peshawar- Pakistan Vol. II. No. 17. 1/9/1986.
                                  ASJONJFICANT VICTORY
 The fall of Ferkhar garrison at the hand of Mujahideen is an important military achievement. After the fall of Pushghoor garrison in 1985. the fall of Ferkhar garrison is an important event.
 Ferkhar is a district of Takhar province. It is a valley which was liberated in 1979. In 1985 the enemy launched an offensive and established the garrison which was manned by more than 300 soldiers. Several attempts by Mujahideen in the past to capture the garrison failed to bring the result. To capture such a garrison ohe needs a strong force, detailed planning and coordination.
 To gather a strong force it was natural to ask different districts to contribute one or more of their units. These units were trained and pul into uniform, it was decided to give command to a local commander and Mullah Abdul Wadood was chosen, he was supported by an eiperienced deputy commander Gada from Panjshir. For a long time Commander Masood has been busy working to build a practical unity. The Council of the North was formed and Mujahideen reorganized. Units were trained and equtpped, and Central forces were formed. The idea of farming central forces is to break local barriers which prevent Mujahideen from cooperating wiLb each other.
 In this operation units from Panjshir , Eshkamish, Khost .Ferkhar, (Ccsbm and Taleqan (four provinces) fought together. The outcome of the operation was 210 enemy captured and 110 killed. A large amount of arms and ammunition and foodstuff was captured
 All this was done with five Mujahideen martyrd and 8 injured. All this proves the following important points:
 1. Mujahideen have made progress in the tactical and organizational aspects of the war. Some of the units who participated in the operation had not fought such a successful battle in the past.