IN THE NAME OF ALMIGHTY ALLAH |
AFGHANnews
            A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM I'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
               POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                   VOL. Ill, NO. 3, 1/2/1987..,
                                            PUPPETS* OFFER REJECTED
 January 17 vas witness to a great gathering of Afghan Refugees and Mujahideen in Peshawar. In this historic meeting more than 100,000 Afghans took part to listen to the I decision of their leaders.
 The Puppet regime had announced a six months ceasefire and national reconciliation program. Resistance leaders wanted to inform the public about their answer to the ' puppets' proposals.
                                                          *
 The meeting took place after a three days long meeting of the high council of the Alliance in which the issue was studied thoroughly.
 After speeches delivered by all the seven leaders. Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, the current spokesman of the Alliance, read the resolution of the high council of the Alliance.
 Alliance rejected the ceasefire as a ploy by the Soviets to deceive the world public opinion and rejected the so called reconciliation program oFthe puppet regime. The resolution said that the puppet regime does not have the right credentials to talk about ceasefire and reconciliation. There are two sides in the conflict. Mujahideen and the Soviets. Mujahideen are ready to talk only with the Soviets about withdrawal of their troops
 The idea of coalition government of the Mujahideen with the puppets was rejected on the grounds that puppets were criminals, they must be tried not to be given chance to decide the destiny of our Nation.
 According to the resolution. Mujahideen will continue their struggle as long as the Soviet forces are in Afghanistan.
 The high council of the Alliance has appointed a committee to formulate ways of forming an interim government which should control Afghanistan, just after the Soviets leave and pave the ground for national election.
 The council also has appointed a judicial committee to look into the existing problems between the Mujahideen parties and give its verdict which will be honored by all.
 The rally proved one point that refugees are fully aware of the designs of the enemy and will not be deceived by propaganda launched by the Soviets and their puppets. They know the need for continuation of struggle until total victory. Although they love to return to their country, they do it when they see their country free and have the right to decide their future.
 This meeting disappointed Soviets and all its surrogates who were preaching that refugees are tired, they will not wail for their leaders and leave for Afghanistan.
 Mujahideen rejected the ceasefire both in theory and in practice. From all the reports reaching us it becomes clear that Mujahideen have continued to harass the enemy in different parts of Afghanistan. The Soviet and Puppet radios who had abandoned their abusive language against Mujahideen after their announcement of their unilateral