AfrGHANews Vol 6/ No 6, March 15,1990, page ®
Umar Jessurun
The devastating war in Afghanistan has brought upheaval to all families in Afghanistan regardless of their political, religious or social position. There is no Afghan family living any where in the world which has not been affected by the consequences | of the continuing war. Some families have suffered more than others as is the case of Sayed Ahmad Shah's family, whose own sorrows are universally symbolic of all people who are victims of war. In a long conversation he exposed me to die trauma and misfortune that has befallen his family.
Ahmad Shah was one of eleven children (six brothers and five sisters) bom to Mir Aqa Farooque and his wife. The family resided in a relatively large house in a middle class area of Kabul. Mr. Farooque was a graduate of law from Kabul University and worked in the Government Customs House, which paid him a modest wage, supplemented by the additional income generated from a percentage lake of all goods confiscated and later sold in public auctions. This enabled Mr. Farooque to support his family comfortably, and allowed all family members to pursue a full education. As a result, the four older boys in the family were all graduates from university at the time of the Taraki Communist regime coming to power in 1978.
One of the special features of Mr. Farooque's home was that it became a center where people would gather and debate issue. These people came from many different backgrounds and represented many schools of thought on issues such as religion, ‘government, power, jehad and revolution. Mr. Farooque and a close network of friends were personally inspired by Sufi concepts. Also group members sought evidence to back up iheir arguments by consulting books in Mr. Farooque's personal library which numbered some two thousand. A common shared belief amongst most members of the group was the need for organized opposition to the policies of the government who were adopting increasingly repressive tactics against all forais of opposition.	*
The four older sons in >the family while being included in the broader pe-| rimeters of the intellectual group, all
responded to the regime in their own way through their own network of friends. This included direct action in the form of street protests and publication of anti government material.
The Taraki and Amin regimes be came paranoid about any form of . dissenting criticism against their policies and ideology. During die years from 1978-1980, tens of thousands of innocent people were arrested by the re gime. The common practice was for KHAD agents to suddenly arrive at the home of a nominated person mid take that person away without any explanation. They wefe then placed in a secret jail Without any trial, beaten, tortured humiliated and in 11,000 cases murdered. This was a time of tremendous fear in the homes of most Afghans.
Mr: Farooque and his active older sons (Sayed Jamaludin, Sayed Qasem and Sayed Ibraheem) were perceived as threats against the internal security of the state, which led to their arrest by KHAD agents ova- a period of several weeks in 1978. The family members were taken to a secret jail and murdered. No representative of the govern ment had the decency to tell the surviving family members the fate of their father (husband) and brothers (sons).
It was not until a number of years later that the deaths were confirmed by Russian military authorities during a failed prisoner exchanged. The responsibilities for the family's welfare past onto the fourth brother Sayed Habbeebullah. He became increasingly militant and sought ways to seek the release of his father and brothers who he believed may still be alive. During this period, the fifth brother Sayed Ahmad Shah enrolled in a government military school for six months, where he endeavored to recruit men to the ranks of the Mujahideen. He had recruited six men but one of them was a agent of KHAD who informed the authorities, leading to Shah being given a six month prison term. Shah was placed in a bleak cell. One day he received a surprise visit from his distant relative, Haji Aslam, a tiny hunchback man who stood only one meter tall. Aslam was the keeper of the Holy Shrine, Shah-i-Do-Shamshara, (The King with 2 Swords) which is the site of an early Islamic crusader who was martyred while fighting his enemies with a sword
in each hand. Aslam who was also KHAD agent with the title of Captain took pity on Shah and made the neces sary arrangements for his immediate release from prison; However, Shah was made to sign a conditional letter stating that he would refrain from all antiregime activity, and that he would actively inform on anybody or group that participated in activities against die government. Therefore his release was conditional upon him acting as a government informer.
Upon the release of Shah, the fami ly decided to escape from Afghanistan and seek the safety of the refugee haven of Peshawar in Northern Pakistan, where , they could continue their struggles against the regime government in relative safety.
The hope that the family's father ahd three older brothers may still be alive continued to plague Sayed Habbeebullah. He formulated a plan to high-jack a government passenj plane to bring about his family members release. To enact the plan, he recruited five other people including one female, who travelled to Kabul and purchased domestic air tickets on the same flight They had a pistol hidden in a secret compartment of the sandal of one of the members. However, the man who was the source from which the weapons were purchased turned out to be a government agent, and informed the regime authorities that Habbeebullah was planning a highjack, without implying his own involvement of exchanging weapons for money.
The authorities being aware of Habbeebullah's intention to high-jack a plane, proceeded to arrest him, the female member, and one other co-conspirator whilst they were seated on the plane waiting for take off. They were imprisoned even though no firm evidence had been gathered to directly ! ink them to the proposal of highjacking a plane. The other conspirators in the plan were not suspected by the authorities mid as a result were not arrested. They aborted their high-jacking plans and proceeded to complete the flight in a normal manner. Later they were to tell Mujahideen authorities the circumstances surrounding'the aborted
Turn to page ( 4 )