AFGHANews Vol 6, No 18 &19 October 1,1990, page ©
Wisdom of*
the sages
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
Bad seed brings no good harvest
One year I was in Damascus, meditating in the Great Mosque by the shrine of Saint John the Baptist An Arab Sheikh, famous for his injustice, happened to come on pilgrimage. Both rich and poor visit this shrine, and those who are more powerful are in greater need of forgiveness. Once he had finished his prayers, he turned to me and said: " You Dervishes are sincere and your prayers are answered. Pray for me because I am very worried about my enemies." I answered:" Treat the poor and the weak with mercy, then have no fear of enemies, however strong. If you use strong-arm tactics and twist the arms of the .weak, if you are ungenerous and unforgiving, then fear the day of your fall, for none will then help you to get up again. If you sow bad seed, don't expect a good harvest. Stop dreaming and listen to me! If you do not deal justly with your subjects, the justice of the Day of Judgement will come none the less."
A hungry soldier cannot fight
A king in days gone by was careless of the affairs of state and failed to pro vide for his army. When the enemy attacked, the troops turned and fled. If you don't pay a soldier, don't expect him to risk his life for you.
One of those who fled was a friend of mine. ” You ungrateful, dishonorable wretch!” I scolded. " At the first sign of danger, you abandonned your master who looked after you and whom you served for years." He replied:" You will un derstand if I tell you: I had no money to buy barley for my horse; I have had to pawn my saddle and felt. When the king is such a miser, how can we fight well for him?"
Soviet support to Kabul regime prolongs detention of POWs
Commander Masood told an ICRC delegation that he is not ready to talk about the future of Soviet prisoners of war until he sees a positive change in the Soviet policy towards Afghanistan.
An ICRC delegation visited Takhar and Panjshir to study the possibilities for medical assistance but no agreement was reached. The delegation wanted the medical supplies to be transported through Kabul, which was rejected. Masood was opposed to any activity of the ICRC which involved crossing the line separation the Mujahideen from the regime. The delegation argued that it was not able bring supplies through the Mujahideen transportation routes on pack animals.
Masood also rejected the delegation’s request to travel to Peshawar via Kabul. The ICRC delegation was told that the Mujahideen were opposed to any program passing through the regime's territory. The delegation, however, was allowed to meet the prisoners and take letters from them to their fam-
ilies. The ICRC delegation also had brought letters from prisoners in regime jails to their families in the liberated areas.
An Afghan officer of ICRC was killed in Herat by unknown persons at the beginning of September. ICRC has an office in the city of Herat.
■UL

(*"	Jij
Under his bowl there is a little bowl.
Meaning: A person smelts a rat, or,there is a trick to the trade; or, "there is something rotten in the saie of Denmark".
iyHi jLijS yjyjuftft O <£
He appreciates prosperity who is caught is calamity.
Meaning: Troubles makes appreciate our blessings; or, we never know the worth of water until the well runs dry.
jja v
Vj i*■*
He who can be killed by sugar should not be killed by poison.
Meaning: Subtlety is better than force.

dut>

Jjj
He who is cornered will fight.
Meaning: Tread on worm and it will turn; or, a cornered rat will figh

		

ft
III

The
!!!!!
mMmm
mmmm
kw:*:
of Allah (peace be upon
igg
III
him) said: "The most hated perl
son in the si
twiiii —
Pnost quarrelsome person
...
ft