AFGHANews Vol7, No 13, July 1,1991, page ©
Muslims pray for victory
Mohammad Es'haq
The Muslim World League, a Mecca-based Islamic organization, invited me and a group of other Afghans to perform Haj, and provided air tickets, transport, food and lodging in the Holy Land. The League had invited more than 500 Muslims from all over the world to perform Haj this year.
Although the trip was official, our departure was uncertain because the League's Peshawar office which had invited us had not reserved any airplane seats. We were told to go the airport and test our luck with the only remaining flight of Saudi Airlines. Luckily, the seats were available.
In Jeddah, we were met by officials of the League who took us to Mecca and lodged us in the League's guest house at Mina.
As a guest of the government Haj was easy. But for all pilgrims Haj is much simpler than ini the past The Saudi government has done everything it could to allow pilgrims to perform Haj in safety and comfort. A system of tunnels, overheads, roads and bridges have made travel in the Holy Land easier and safer.
This year's Haj was uneventful. Last year 1000 people were killed in a tunnel stampede.
More than 100,000 Iranian pilgrims performed Haj this season. Unlike previous years/ relations between Iranian pilgrims and the Saudi authorities were good. In the early years of the Islamic revolution, Iranian pilgrims used to raise anti-American and anfi-Isreali slogans in the Holy Land, and organized political rallies. These political activities created tension between them and the Saudi Government. In 1987, about 400 Iranian pilgrims were killed in clashes with Saudi security forces in the holy city of Mecca, leading to an Iranian boycott of the Haj for three years. At the end of the Gulf crisis, relations between the two countries were normalized, paving the way for Iranian pilgrims to come back to the Holy Land.
But the Gulf crisis did prevent Muslims from some Arab countries from performing Haj. According to a merchant in Medina, Iraqi pilgrims had not come and pilgrims from Libya, Yemen, Algeria and Sudan were fewer compared to previous years.
The presence of 5000 Soviet pilgrims was a significant development We talked to some Tajiks from the
USSR who sympathized with the Mujahideen and prayed for their victory. When we asked them to pose for collective photos, they refused, possibly fearing the KGB. About 180 Albanian pilgrims also had come to the Holy Land. Soviets and Albanians were also guests of the Saudi government during their stay.
At Mina, the guests of the League listened to speakers who talked about religion and current issues of the Muslim world at the end of each regular prayer. Afghanistan and Palestine were the two main issues discussed. Prof. Ahmad Jan Ahmadzay, a member of the Executive Committee of Jami'at, briefed the audience about the situation in Afghanistan. Members of the Afghan delegation also talked to individual pilgrims about the Jehad. While other pilgrims expressed sympathy with the Mujahideen and prayed for their victory, they asked the Mujahideen to unify their ranks.
In a separate gathering organized by the Presidency of Islamic Research, Ifta and Propagation, two Afghan leaders, Cmdr. Jalaluddin Haqqani and Maulawi Ahmad Gul, spoke about the situation in Afghanistan and the need for continued support for the Mujahideen.
The absence of die leaders of the Mujahideen parties in this year's Haj indicated a change in traditionally warm relations between the Mujahideen leaders and the Saudi government on account of the Gulf crisis.
The good news of the recapture of Khwaja Ghar reached us in the Holy Land. We thanked Almighty Allah for the victory and prayed for further successes by the Mujahideen in the Jehad against the infidels.
More than 6,500 Afghans had the privilege of performing Haj this year. More than 4500 had left from Pakistan, 1000 from Iran and 1000 from Kabul.
Several thousand would-be Afghan pilgrims could not perform Haj due to the lack of planes to fly them from Islamabad to the Holy Land. Among them were about 180 pilgrims from the Supervisory Council. In previous years the Saudi government organized special flights for Afghan Hajis, but this year, this facility was not extended to them for unknown reasons.
Some of these pilgrims had come all the way from Afghanistan and they returned home with heavy hearts and tearful eyes.
HHL Babrak KarmitlMPHBjWWB of the Kabul regime, returned to Kabul on June 20 Som;'Mbscowl I where he had been living in exile. (One day after Karmal's arrival, his Mother, Mahrtood Baryalay, was <Ss-1 missed' pmfm, post of Deputy! PrimeMnisttf J&* reason was given (for the retain of Katroal and the dismissal of his brother. Kanhal was replaced by Nafib in 1986 as the head of the Kabul regime antTsince them [bad lived in the US I	" •••
I Kiiodaidad Basharmai has been appointed the Kabul regime’s ambas-l Isador to the UN. He replaces Noor .Ahmad Noor, who was called home several months ago.^^^HH | Basharmai 46, was until recent-
mm '	>...&■< m -I
I The meat, brought by four PIA |flights, was distributed among Afghan refugees in Baluchistan and [fSRVFP provinces.	■
I The People's Republic of China has given a donation worth Rs.12
■■■to Afghan refugees uving ml |fi^stan..::;iiifri Zhon Gang, Chinese arobassi^tb Pakistan, handed d» donation documents to the office of Commissioner for Afghan Refugees on Juiti:i7i!F	.-(III: ■
The Kabul an foray: bombed Khost, killing at least 20 people and injuring 80, on June 16, Kbost was Ubaied a* the startojthe parent Afghan year.
The MujalthfHl^^^^l diets and militiamen, captured m Khost, m Peshawar on June 19. The
-'-vlPiPi III #
tatives of the med Cross, A spokes-
I j :: ,
Dr. Mohammad Yoiwf, a fw| n&r Afghan prime minister, has ad-! niitted?:.n^	thein^me	for-
eign mihisteiC / AbdulpWaldL Dr.1
m
W