AFGHANews Vol 8, No 17, September 1,1992, page ©
helps war victims
Sandy Gall was in Kabul for two weeks during July - accompanied by two of his daughters, Carlotta and Michaela ■ partly to inform himself about the political situation here and partly to look into the needs of the Afghan disabled. He started his charity, the Sandy Gall Afghanistan Appeal, to provide limbs for disabled Afghans in 1983, after his first visit to the Panjshir 1982. Commarfder Masood had asked him to help- provide treatment for Commander Abdul Wahid, who had lost a leg in a mine accident.
The Appeal began its work in Peshawar in 1986, setting up a woik-shop in the Lady Reading Hospital and later moving into the Integrated Training Center (ITC) in Hayatabad in 1989. Apart from providing artificial limbs for Afghan men, women and children wounded in the war, SGAA from the outset set itself the task of training developing a major physiotherapy program.
Today, the Appeal has a staff of more than 50 trained Afghan technicians who are ready to move into Afghanistan and start work here.
In a two week visit to Kabul Mr. Gall met the Minister of Health, Dr. Mujaddidi, who gave him a warm welcome, and various members of the ministry. He also visited the Indira Gandhi Children's Hospital; the Wazir.Akbar
Khan Orthopaedic Center, the physiotherapy school run by IAM, the ICRC hospital and workshop, and various UN offices, including WHO, who Finance two SGAA workshops already functioning in Afghanistan (Rukha in the Panjshir and Wardak, just opened). WHO also funds the SGAA workshop making artificial limb components in Peshawar.
"Our plan, in brief, is to move all our activities, including our main workshop, treating disabled Afghans, the component workshop and our physio program into Afghanistan as soon as possible," said Gall.
Gall added that he was drawing up a report "which we will submit to the government in Kabul, the UN and other interested NGOs and which will probably include a proposal to move our main workshop to Jalalabad, our component workshop and physio programme to Kabul and our Rukha workshop - set up in wartime conditions - to a bigger catchment area further north."
In this way SGAA would divide its efforts equally between the northern and southern halves of the country. The charity is still considering the future of the Wardak workshop which seems to be in too small a catchment area
"Our desire remains to be of the greatest possible service to the Afghan nation," said Gall.
Grand Ayatullah dies
The Afghan Shia community mourned the death of Grand Ayatollah Abu Qassim Khoi, who died on August 7 at age 92.
Ayatollah Khoi was a famous Shia spiritual leader and a great Muslim scholar. A large part of the Afghan Shia community were his followers.
He died in his hometown of .Kufa of a "chronic illness" and was buried in the nearby holy cityofNajaf.
Officials in Iran and Lebanon, the two other countries with majority or large Shia communities, declared three days of public mourning .
To prevent another uprising or
anti-government demonstrations, Iraqi troops surrounded Najaf on August 7, according to the Islamic Action Organization.
Khoi’s role in the uprising of the Shias of southern Iraq after the Gulf war is unclear. He was regarded as politically moderate. A statement from Khoi calling for civil disobedience was distributed in Lebanon during the uprising, but the Grand Ayatollah never confirmed it.
On March 20 last year he appeared on Iraqi television praising God for having allowed Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to end the discord. The opposition and Khoi’s family said he appeared under duress.
PTV depicts Afghan war
Pakistan Television Peshawar Center will telecast 'Shanakht', an Urdu drama depicting the freedom struggle of the Afghan people, in a couple of weeks.
The play portrays the 14-year-long struggle of Afghans, who faced unspeakable difficulties during their stay in Pakistan as well as on the war front. In the drama they give a tough time to an invading superpower.
Habib Mehtab plays the role of an Afghan Mujahid by the name of Amanullah. He fights his enemies on the war front with vigor and scant regard for worldly luxuries.
The drama is produced by a well-known'producer, Tariq Saeed.
The drama was filmed in the tribal areas of Pakistan, and heavy weapons were used in the shooting.
Dutch give aid for Afghans
A huge US military C-5 transport plane arrived in Islamabad on August 12, bringing 36 pallets of medical supplies and cold weather clothing for the Afghan people.
The flight was funded by the McCollum Afghan Humanitarian Relief Program, a joint project of the US Department of Defense and the office of the US Agency for International Development representative for Afghanistan affairs. ■
The McCollum program also evacuates, Afghan war wounded for medical treatment in the United States and Europe.
The airlift was the 106th flight since this program began in i986.
Meanwhile, the Netherlands' government has. also provided five million Dutch guilders (S3 million) in assistance to Afghanistan.
The donation, whicji is to support the activities of WFP, UNICEF, UNHCR and UNOCA, will be used for provision of medicines, water supply, education, voluntary repatriation and mine clearance.