AFGHANews Vol 5, No 22, November 15,1989, page @
Herat province
The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed 25 communist soldiers and captured five when they attacked government positions in Char Sarak, in the Islam Qala area, on November 4.
The Mujahideen captured the following weapons:
ZPU anti aircraft guns, 3 76mm guns, 2 82mm mortar, 1 PK machine guns, 2 Kalashnikov rifles, 18 One Mujahid was killed in the operation.
Kandahar province
The Mujahideen in Kandahar fired 60 ground-to-ground rockets at enemy positions in Firqa-i-Kandahar on November 4.
. The firing resulted in setting fire to some buildings and killing and wounding 17 soldiers and officers. Two trucks were also set on fire.
Jami'at Mujahideen in Arghandab district fired 55 rockets into enemy positions in the Tabeen area on November 6, killing eight officers and 31 soldiers and wounding 45 others.
Two ammunition dumps were*set on fire. The enemy retaliated with aerial bombing, wounding two people.
On November 4, the Mujahideen fired 50 rockets into Kandahar divisional headquarters, killing 23 soldiers and officers and wounding 15.
On November 7, Jami'at Mujahideen fired 60 rockets into Kandahar divisional headquarters, killing five and wounding 12 soldiers. Two trucks were also destroyed.
Firing rockets into enemy positions has continued. Jami'at Islami
Mujahideen in Kandahar are led by Mullah Naqibullah.
Balkh province
Jami'at Mujahideen killed one officer and captured 12 soldiers on the road leading to Haiiatan town on the Soviet border on October 17.
They seized 12 Kalashnikov rifles and one R-108 radio set
On October 26, Jami'at Mujahideen attacked an enemy post in Kokal Dagh area, on Mazar-Shiberghan road, killing 20 soldiers and capturing two trucks, eight Kalashnikov rifles and one radio set. The enemy lost one truck and one tank in the operation.
The report is silent about the casualties of the Mujahideen.
Parwan province
In the first week of November, Jami'at Mujahideen destroyed two enemy security posts in Jabul Serej, at the mouth of the Salang valley, killing seven enemy soldiers and wounding three. The Mujahideen captured four enemy officers.
Kabul province
The communist forces suffered heavy casualties when Mujahideen from Jami'at, Harakat (Mohsiny) and Itdhad (Prof. Sayyaf) attacked the enemy garrison of Tapa-e-Pajak in Paghman on October 13.
The Mujahideen, so far, have been able to capture three-fourths of the garrison. Fighting against the rest of the garrison continues.
The Mujahideen have captured an ammunition dump and have set several dumps on fire.
In die first eight days of fighting, 85 enemy soldiers were killed and 130 wounded. The Mujahideen also have
captured 30 soldiers.
Three Mujahideen were killed. Seven were wounded, in addition to six civilians. A large number of houses have been destroyed by the enemy's heavy weapons fire.
The Mujahideen captured 120 heavy and light weapons, six tanks and five trucks. Twenty-eight enemy vehicles were destroyed. The garrison is situated on a hill.
Mullah Ezat, Jami’at commander, played a key role in the fighting. The spirit of cooperation between the three parties is the main reason for the success of the operation.
Paghman is a former resort town in the west of Kabul. This area has been the sight of heroic resistance by the Mujahideen during the years of occupation.
Harakat (Mohsiny) is a Shia party based in Tehran. Its commander near Kabul is Anwari.
The Mujahideen caused a huge explosion in an enemy ammunition dump in Bagh-i-Daud in Paghman on November 29. The dump burned for several hours, causing losses in men and materials. No details of the casualties were available.
Commander Mullah Ezat from Paghman reports that Mujahideen rockets have recently hit some important enemy targets in Kabul with precision. Police Academy and the Women's Democratic Organization building woe the two targets hit recently.
Salang
Heavy fighting along the Salang highway blocked die road for several days, delaying UN supplies bound for KabuL
Fighting along the highway at several points began in the last week of October.
The Mujahideen from Jami’at at tacked and blocked the road in Tangi Tashqurghan. Road blocks in North and South Salang and around Charikar city also took place.
In addition to heavy material losses, the enemy suffered heavy casualties. The Kabul regime made extensive use of long-range rockets and heavy aerial bombing to push the Mujahideen out of their positions.
The regime combined war efforts
with propaganda against commanders
along the highway, such as Sufi
Payinda of Hezb and Ahmand Shah
Masood, calling them bandits who
create food shortages for the civilian
population. _
Turn to page ( 7)