AFGHAN HEMS UOl.llt, HO.9, 1/5/ 190? PAGE 6
He is right because the Soviet Union is still exerting political pressure as veil as military, as with the bomb terror - upon the Pakistani government to make it give up its fundamental policy and come to an agreement vith the Russians over the heads of the Afghans. And the negotiations betveen the US and the Soviet Union about regional conflicts should be seen in that context as well. It has happened before that the great powers have come to terms at the expense of smaller nations.
Khalilullah Khalili is right because the game for Afghanistan is still going on to the highest possible degree, and because politics - also for Mikhail Gorbachev - is the art of the possible.
When he talks about peace in Afghanistan, he does not talk about peace for the Afghan people but about the peace which it is possible for him to attain. He represents f superpower, and let us not for a moment imagine that he would withdraw any troops out of sheer and pure benevolence. He may be a new kind of Soviet leader, but that damned new he is not.
Yes. the old poet is right that the fateful hour for the people of Afghanistan is getting closer, and that, for this very reason, they now need the support of world opinion more than ever. And if the mass media in our country do not take their responsibility, if the only reactions Gorbachev gets-from here are rose-shimmer, idol hysteria, cheers and fan letters, then they will be nothing but a contribution to a Soviet peace in Afghanistan
Let Gorbachev know that the blood-stains on his suit are visible. In spite of all his talk about peace they are visible and they will remain visible until the day when Afghanistan is free again.
                             DENAIU MET THE RESISTANCE LEADERS
The Vice President of the Foreign Committee of the French National Assembly, Mr. Jean Francois Denaiu met the Resistance leaders on 22,4, 1987 and talked to them about the situation in Afghanistan. Prof. B. Rabbani. leader of Jami'al Islam! Afghanistan, was present along with other leaders
Mr Denaiu had come to Pakistan for an evaluation of the situation in Afghanistan. Some time ago he was appointed by the French Prime Minister to study the situation and prepare a report to be presented to him. He also met Pakistani officials during his stay in Pakistan.
                           AFGHANISTAN ISSUE AND NAM LEADERSHIP
Cuba was the leader of the NAM when the Soviets invaded Afghanistan. Cuba supported the invasion, something which everybody expected. India took office after Cuba. The tragedy was continuing. Rajiv did not dare to condemn the Soviet invasion openly.
Zimbabwe became the leader of this movement. Some people expected that this country might do a better job. But that country's decision to open diplomatic ties with the puppet regime in Kabul disappointed every body.
Recently the puppet regime announced that diplomatic relations on the embassy level will start between the two countries from April first 1987.
Afghanistan is an occupied country. The invaders are the Soviets. The puppet regime has been brought to power by the Soviets and its survival depends on the presence of the Soviet troops. Lately the Soviets have admitted that their invasion of Afghanistan was a mistake Against this background we do not see any justification in opening diplomatic ties with the puppet regime, It can not be more than a step to please the Soviets and give a color of legatimicy to the puppet regime_______________