AFGHANews Vol6, No 17, September 1,1990, page ©
Who is who	in the Mujahideen	-
Cmdr. Abdul Karim Arshad
Abdul Karim Arshad, Jami’at commander in Gurziwan District, Faryab Province;, leads about 500 armed Mujahideen and control part of the district.
He is famous for his piety, good manners and following of Islamic teachings in conducting Jehad and dealing with the people.
Arshad has taken part in many operations in different parts of Faryab Province. In the first years of Jehad his Mujahideen liberated Gurziwan district and freed a large number of Mujahideen prisoners.
He pays attention to education of the his Mujahideen. A visitor reported that every night he gathered his Mujahideen and talked to them about the purpose of Jehad and advised them to behave like good Muslims in dealing with the people. He shows great inters! in the education of children. He has opened 12 schools and 10 madrasas in Gurziwan the expenses of which are provided by the Mujahideen and the local people.
Arshad treats the people nicely. He listen to their complaints and tries his best to provide them with justice.
When he was a student before the Communist coup of 1978 he Joined the Islamic Movement. He left his studies in the faculty of the Islamic Law of Kabul University unfinished, to wage a war against the Soviet invaders. He was in the third year of his studies in the University. Arshad completed the primary school in Dara Mazang of Gurziwan and secondary education in the Madrasa (religious school) of Abu Muslim in Maimana. Arshad came to Peshawar, Pakistan, in 1981 and has stayed inside since then.
Commander Arshad was more powerful in the past. Some of his commanders left him sometime back because he could not provide them with their needs of arms and ammunistion.
Arshad was bom in 1954 in Dara Zang. His father, Haji Bymurad, was a tajik landowner and the leader of his village. He is married and has three children.
Cmdr. Mohammad Saadat
Dr. Mohammad Saadat, Jami’at commander in Lawlash District, Faryab Province, leads about 500 armed Mujahideen in the war against the communists.
His Mujahideen have taken part in the liberation of Lawlash and in fighting in Maimana, the provincial capital, and some other districts.
Lawlash was liberated at the beginning of Jehad and has remained under the Mujahideen's control since then.
Commander Saadat is a graduate of the Health Faculty of Kabul University and this is the reason for the people calling him Doctor Saadat. Beside his other engagements, he treats the Mujahideen and the local people. He finished primary school in Lawlash and completed Abu Ubaid High School in Maimana.
Kabulis suffer from price hikes
A German journalist has reported that although essential commodities are available in Kabul, the prices are so high that ordinary Afghans and low ranking regime officers cannot buy them.
He says one kilogram of tomatoes costs 210 Afghanis and one kilogram of soybeans 250 Afghanis, while the monthly salary of a nurse is 4,000 Afghanis,
The reporter said the value of the Afghani (Afghan currency) is falling each day. In 1988 each US dollar was exchanged with 210 Afghani. This year 580 Afghani makes one dollar.
The regime army officers and volunteer soldiers receive the highest salaries in Afghanistan. Each volunteer soldier receives a monthly galaxy of 40,000 Afghanis.
His critics say that Dr. Saadat have failed to use his abilities to organize his Mujahideen better and expand his influence in the rest of the province. The reason is that he has been satisfied with the liberation of his area and has not tried to engage .the enemy outside his district regularly.
He came to Peshawar in 1980 to get support from Jami’at and after a short while returned to his area.
He was bom in 1953 in a Tajik family. His father, Mohamad Naeem, was an influential person in Lawlash. The economic condition of the family was relatively good. Dr. Saadat has benefited from the reputation of his father to rally the local people against the communists under his leadership. He is married and has five children.
Five Iranians were killed by Soviet border guards on August 7 when they were returning from a visit to the Soviet Union to meet their rela-tives, Kayhan Hawaii reported.
immmm
| A ||sti||pi|||i^ sta-$00 in Kbte-LSangi:^|^||pf Kabul On ^August Wm r^lri^d. Four people were killed and ||. injured in j^elexplosion w^kib-’feill^re tharf iSpD .bouses. and shops. wl||o|t;;pow||^ ®(Kabul. • regime' . hai||it§pd the Mujahideen for the explbffl^|-:.:
"A movte wilf jfe «|§|s tn(j|& Soviet Union about that gagemem In Afghanis^; actor will play die leading sole and the	air force amd artillery uiiits
will take $»i£in ^fiIm.;The; movie whlch witl cost one million lars win be shot in the southern part
^ils^inthe]Fa|i|.
Jawan, a senior militia commander, who was killed by the Mujahideen in Herat: on AugtKH|| Kabul Badib ;reported. The deputy Ministers of XJffehse and part in his burial ceremony.
||!	ii
Eighty people were killed; when a regime transport plane flying from Shindan, in the West of Afghanistan,
Kabul regime sources has indicated that technical problems were the cause of the crash, but a Mujahideen attack cannot be ruled out. Regime officers form the bulk of passengers

The	interim | Gpyehnew
will send 2,000 Mujahideen to Saudi Arabia for the defense of the holy cities of Mecca and Madina, MIDIA re| ; pofiot; The Afgj|Ei[n:: Mujahideen hayb condemned invasion of

Foreign diplomats in Kabul are
rationing, a German paper writes, fWhite hundreds of ordinary Afghans wait in line to fill then backets of water. the foreign diplomat? art attoufl! tofih tlteirswimmijng pools. - §§f