AFGHAN NEWS
No. 1 8
985   ____ _p-6o
   It seeas that the Soviets do this for the following reasonss
   1 - To defame the Pakistan and Iranian governments who are sympathetic to the cause of Afghan people.
   2- To get hard cash which is.omucluneeded,
   3- To create problems for western societies..
   4- To defame the Afghan resistanne by waging propaganda that the Mujahideen are involved, in the drug business. .
   It should be mentioned here that the Mujahideen's organized fronts are using every means to fight against the drug business and drug use.. Growing opium and hashish is forbidden in' the liberated areas controlled by this front. The use of drugs and the buying or selling of it is punishable under Islamic, law.
                             HI G^R_EDUCATION_FOR_AFGHAN_ STUDENT
   After the Communist Coup of 1978* education in Afghanistan faced real problems. After the Soviet invasion the whole system collapsed. For the people of Afghanistan the first priority became the defence of their country.                                                  —
   As the war continues and no immediate solution is in sight, the question of the education of the Afghan children must be raised.
   There are some primary level schools and the Mujahideen themselves are running others, but the problem of higher education remains unsolved. Thousands of university and high school students left school and joined the resistance. The resistance feels that these people should continue their studies to be able to serve the Jehad better. But the possiblities are very small , The number of Afghan student who attend higher education institutions around the world each year does not exceed two hundred.
   On the other hand the Soviets are sending tens of thousands of people to the Soviet Union and Eastern block countries each year to study. This •• development put the resistance in a bad position and could be very dangerous for the future of the Afghan nation.
   We believe that muslira, third world countries and those around the world who are opposed to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan should pay attention to this problem. They should have a quota to admit Afghan students each year. This form of humanitarian aid does not create many problems.
   It is the duty of the coalition of Afghan Mujahideen to raise the issue with friendly countries and try to find a reasonable solution.