AFGHANews Vol 8, No 5, March 1, 1992, page
Editorial

Jami'at committed to unity of Afghanistan
Some Mujahideen have expressed fear about growing ethnic and linguistic separatism among Afghans, and the involvement of foreign countries in support of these activities. They have indirectly accused Jami’at of involvement in these activities.
Such concerns have been aired more often since the mutiny against Najib by militia forces in the North. Other developments also highlighted the issue: the Jami'at commanders’ inability to attend the Commander's Council in Jawar, Paktia, due to logistical problems; the formation of the Association of Cultural Cooperation, with the pariticipation of Mujahideen, Iran and Tajikistan, to help the revival of Islamic culture in Central Asia; and repeated warnings by Benon Sevan, the UN special envoy, that if his peace plan were rejected, Afghanistan would disintegrate along ethnic lines.
Three parties could involve themselves in separatist activities: foreign countries, the Kabul regime and Mujahideen parties.
Regarding the first, there is little point in idle speculation about in the intentions of foreign countries, our neighbors in particular, toward Afghan separatist movements. We can only keep in mind that if separatism among Afghans serves other countries' interests, there is no guarantee they will not promote them. But one should not forget that the partition of Afghanistan, or other turmoil based on ethnic and linguistic demands, will create problems which could easily spread throughout the region. Instability in Afghanistan will not serve the interests of any of our neighbors.
If there is foreign involvement for any reason, Afghans will unite to oppose it, as they did against the Soviets. Foreign involvement will unify Afghans.
Soviet policy during the occupation of Afghanistan and Najib's short-sighted policies have left bad feelings. The Soviet policy was to divide Afghanistan on ethnic lines, as they had divided Central Asia. Najib formed tribal battalions and used armed militias from certain areas against the people of other areas. The recent militia mutiny in the regime's northern theater is the result of years of conspiracy gone out of control.
All the Mujahideen are trying to overthrow the Kabul regime and form an Islamic government in Afghanistan. Afghans have no history of separatist activities.
But the Mujahideen have inherited some problems from the past which an Islamic government in Kabul must solve. Some policies of previous rulers, including Zahir Shah and Daud Khan, created inequities in the country's administrative structure. Past rulers engaged in regional, linguistic and religious discrimination. An Islamic government in Afghanistan will have to address these issues, correct mistakes and provide justice to all.
The following are the major points of Jami'at policy towards the national unity and territorial integrity of Afghanistan:
- Ideologically, Jami'at is opposed to racial, linguistic and sectarian groupings. Such actions divide the Islamic Umma and are considered sinful.
•	Contrary Co the common perception, Jami'at is not a regional party. It has followers all over Afghanistan and its members come from all ethnic groups.
•	In the areas it controls, Jami'at has treated people from all political parties and ethnic groups fairly. The Supervisory Council has set a good example in this respect, creating a potential model for the whole of Afghanistan.
•	The idea of forming a federation between the North of Afghanistan and Central Asia has come from foreigners. Jami'at has strongly rejected these suggestions.
MT	To	Page (8)
KHAK-I-AULEYA (Dust of the Saint) is the name of an interesting book about the journey of a young Polish journalist who visited Herat during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.
Radek Sikorski, a Polish dissident living in London, travelled with the Mujahideen of Jami'at to meet the legendary commander of Herat, Ismail Khan.
The book is now translated from English into Persian by Abdul Ali Noor Ahrari, an Afghan writer, and published by Zawar Publishing Company, Iran.
The translator has succeeded in presenting the book in easy language. Being a local man, he has not made the mistakes usually the translator make about names of people and places. This is one of the few books on Afghanistan which have been translated from other languages into Persian.
Afghans, Iranians and the Tajiks of the former Soviet Union can benefit from the work of a young Pole who tries to be as objective as possible but does not try to hide his sympathy with the cause of Afghan resistance. The book tells the true story of Afghans struggle against the Soviet invaders and endless sufferings of its people subjected to scorched-earth policy of the Red Army. It sheds light chi the life of Ismail Khan , the great commander of Mujahideen whom he describes as 'a classical hero'.
Afghan Jehad inspired Radek and many other Poles in the ranks of the Solidarity Movement to resist the tyranny of communism. Ironically, their success came much earlier than that of the Afghans.
After the changes in Eastern Europe, Radek moved back to his country and is involved in supporting the democratic system in Poland.
A picture taken by the author won the first prize of ’Wold Press Photo Contest 1988'. The photo was about a woman and two of her children buried inside their house in Kusk-i-Serwan of Herat when the Soviet jets bombed their house. The woman and children had died in setting position with thier hands towards the sky , as if they were praying.
The photo was also displayed in the Soviet Union.