AFGHANews Vol 8, No 4, February 15, 1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Sayyed Asrar, 40, is the public prosecutor of the Supervisory Council in Farkhar and Worsaj districts. He has also served as the head of financial committee and military commander of Worsaj valley.
Sayyed Asrar was a teacher in Worsaj when the communist coup of 1978 took place. Being a known member of the Islamic Movement, he was imprisoned three months after the April coup. He and ten other religious figures and notables of Farkhar and Worsaj were rounded up and sent to Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar. Most of them were killed by the communist regime but Sayyed Asrar was released after one year (when Taraki was killed by Amin, he ordered release of some prisoners). Sayyed returned to Worsaj and started to work as a teacher in Meyan Shahr village.
Two months after his release, the Mujahideen liberated Worsaj and appointed Sayyed Asrar as the head of the financial committee. Within two months, the Mujahideen liberated Farkhar and Taliqan. Sayyed Asrar and other Mujahideen of Worsaj took active part in the liberation of Farkhar.
The communist regime recaptured Taliqan and Farkhar but Worsaj remained in control of the Mujahideen. Soviet invasion of December 27, 1979 brought no change in the situation in Worsaj. Except for occasional aerial bombing, Soviets never attacked Worsaj.
Sayyed came to Peshawar in the spring of 1980. He returned to Worsaj with a group of Mujahideen headed by Qazi Islamuddin. They were given some guns by Jami'at. Qazi Islamuddin acted as the provincial head of Takhar at that time. Qazi failed to convince the Mujahideen of Ishkamish to work under a united command and the weapons brought from Peshawar were distributed. The Mujahideen of Worsaj who had heard about the successful campaign of Commander Masood against the Soviets in the Panjshir contacted him. They asked Masood to organize them. In 1983 Sayyed Asrar went to Panjshir, met with Masood and ■ returned with some guns.
When the Supervisory Council was formed, reorganization work started in Worsaj and Farkhar. Masood sent
Lieutenant Dad-i-Allah to train the Mujahideen in Worsaj and organize their bases. After a period of uncertainty and internal tension , Worsaj was reorganized and the security in the valley improved. At this time, Sayyed served as the commander of one of the two side-vallies of Worsaj.
When Masood visited Worsaj in 1984, he turned it into a base. Sayyed Asrar was appointed the public prosecutor of Worsaj and1 Farkhar.
Sayyed Asrar is an admirer of Masood because his work brought not only security to Worsaj but also prosperity. Before the war three trucks operated in Worsaj. These trucks were owned by a local influential person, Eshan-i-Nabi, who had ties with the forma- king. (Eshan-i-Nabi and his two sons were captured and killed by the communist regime). The people of the valley now own 66 trucks.
The council repaired or extended the roads in Worsaj and a hospital was built in the valley. Before the war, there was no market in Worsaj except for a few shops in each village. Now, Worsaj has more than 100 shops and restaurants.
Sayyed Asrar joined the Islamic Movement when he was a student in Abu Hanifa school in Kabul. Demonstration by Ulamas against the government of the former king in 1970 coincided with Sayyed Asrar's arrival in Kabul to attend the school. This movement which was suppressed by the police of the king had an important impact on non-communist young students of schools and colleges. They saw it as un-Islamic move by government to protect communists. The Islamic Movement gained considerable strength after the incident. In fall of that
year, the Islamic Movement staged its independent demonstration. Sayyed Asrar was affected by these developments and began to participate in political activities. Attending demonstrations, paying membership fee, distribution of Islamic literature and debates in defense of Islam against alien ideologies formed the main activities of the students belonging to the Islamic Movement
He finished Abu Hanifa School in 1977 and began to work as a teacher in the secondary school of Worsaj. He tried to encourage the students to work for Islam. He also gave speeches in mosques highlighting the problems of the society, criticizing the government and proposing Islamic solutions to them. He became known as an Tkhwani' (member of Brotherhood). The influential local people who always defend the ruling system opposed him but they could not do much to stop him because he was promoting Islam and because President Daud's rule had weakened the position of these people. When the communists took power in a bloody coup and began purging their potential enemies, Sayyed Asrar was arrested and sent to jail in Taliqan.
It was natural for Sayyed Asrar to become a promoter of Islam because he was bom in a religious family and had studied Islamic subjects before coming in contact with alien ideologies.
Sayyed was bom in Khanaqa, a village in Worsaj. His father, Sayyed Jalal worked as a mason and a farmer.
Sayyed is the decedent of a spiritual leader of Naqshbandi sufi brotherhood, Sayyed Khalil Badakhshi, who lived 500 years ago. A mosque built by Sayyed Khalil is still in good shape. Late Prof. Khalili visited the mosque once and discovered the year in which the mosque was built.
Sayyed Asrar went to' the mosque school of his village and at the age of seven, he attended the primary school of Worsaj and continued learning religious books from his uncle, Mawlawi Sayyed Mirza. Sayyed Asrar has three brothers, one of whom is a Mujahid of the Islamic Army of the Supervisory Council and two others are farmers. He is married and has four children.
He is currently visting Peshwar for medical treatment and will return to Worsaj when the northern route is opened in the Spring.