AFGHANews Vol 7, No 2, January 15,1991, page @
• •	=11 . . mm
rwr^t
	22 \
Editorial	
V								
Will Gorby lose Peace award?
Gorbachev was honored with the 1990 Nobel Peace Prize in recognition of his 'contribution to peace'. It was a great honor for a communist leader to win this prize.
As we said at that time, Gorbachev was a poor choice for the prize because of his involvement in Afghan war since 1985, and his oppressive rule at home and the uncertain nature of his reforms.
The recent developments in the Baltic states must have disappointed Gorbachev's Western admirers who projected him as a peace-loving leader. The West, which tolerated the heavy-handedness of Gorbachev in the Islamic republics of Azarbaijan and Tajikistan as an excuse for suppressing the wave of fundamentalism, is now facing a new situation in relation with the Baltic states which are Christian , European and were forcibly annexed to the Soviet Union by Stalin as a part of a secret deal with Adolf Hitler. Gorbachev has chosen the peak of the Gulf crisis for the crackdown on the nationalist movements in the Baltic states. The major Western powers are involved in a showdown with Iraq.
Moscow's leaders have always been good in choosing the right time for offensive activities. For example, they invaded Afghanistan during the Christmas holidays of 1979 to minimize the international reaction.
If Gorbachev's involvement in Afghanistan and crackdown on nationalist movements in Azarbaijan and Central Asia did not disqualify him from receiving the Nobel award, will the bloodshed in the Baltic states force the Nobel Committee to withdraw the Prize which was given to the wrong person in the first place?
BBC's poor reporting hurts Afghans
Nation to Nation' is the name Of a video tape prepared by the BBC about its World Service. The tape praises the BBC for its objective reporting and crosschecking of facts. But recent BBC reporting from Kabul contradicts these claims.
Many Afghans listen to the BBC's Pashtu and Persian services and consider the BBC a reliable source of information. This reputation makes the BBC's substandard reporting very misleading.
Here are some recent examples:	i
•	Dipak Tripathi, BBC’s special reporter in Kabul, reported that after the agreement between Hezb and Jami'at in Peshawar, Jami'at killed about 20 Hezb commanders in the North. The Mujahideen of both parties do not know of any such killing. He gave KHAD, the regime secret police, as the source of news. Using a secret service as source made the BBC into a propaganda tool of the regime.
•	Tripathi reported a clash between Hezb and Jami'at north of Kabul. The report added that Masood was close to the area of conflict, 30 kilometers from the city. Both parties rejected the news; Commander Masood has not been that close to Kabul recently. The source, again, must have been KHAD.
■ Dipak reported a meeting between Khaliqyar, regime prime minister, and some elders of Uruzgan. Dozens of such meetings are reported daily by Kabul regime radio and TV. These meetings are routine propaganda moves with no news value. BBC speculation about an attack on Tareen Kot, in connection with this news, is no more than assisting the regime's psychological war against the Mujahideen.
. Poor reporting from Kabul might have something to do with the BBC reporter's nationality. Dipak is a naturalized Briton of Indian birth and has close contacts with the Indian embassy in Kabul. The Indian embassy is the source of much disinformation aimed at hurting the Mujahideen cause. If Dipak is not intentionally involved in anti-Mujahideen propaganda, his lack of information
Turn to page (6)
Ogata appointed UNHCR chief
Prof. Sadako Ogata from Japan will be the next UNHCR chief, UN sources reported. This is the first time that a high UN position has been held by a woman.
Before her appointment to the new job, Ogata had served as a professor of international relations in a university in Japan, the head of the UN Human Rights Commission, and Japan’s Ambassador to the UN. She has written many books about refugees which are popular in Japan.
UNHCR is responsible for looking after 15 million refugees all over the world, one third of whom are Afghans. The UNHCR is facing shortages of funds to carry out its humanitarian activities.
Earlier, the UN Secretary had proposed an Indian national for the UNHCR post, which was opposed by the major donor countries. They complained that UN did not consult them about the choice. The UN Secretary General was forced to reverse his decision, and proposed Ogata.
Appointment of an Indian national for the job would have been a bad news for Afghan refugees and their main host, Pakistan. India sympathizes with the Kabul regime and its relations with Pakistan are poor.
Letter from
V	V
son
From page (3) cause they did not kill her son.
She told her son that she was not angry why he converted into Islam. " I pray for your safety my son", she wrote.
Islamuddin said although the people in his town were Christian his family did not believe in God. He thinks that Soviet society must have undergone great changes because an nonbeliever has started to pray.
Islamuddin loves his family and want to see his parents convert to Islam..
When asked what he was planning to do in the future, he said he wanted to be with the Mujahideen.
Islamuddin had attended school for 15 years and had been trained in the use of armored cars for one year before he was sent io Afghanistan.