 AFGHAN NEWS_____VOL. II, Mo,  7
 1-4-19S6 ^    - - .
 During the current month (21 Feb-21 March) one militia commander named. IToor iihmad joined Mujahideen with 70 of his follov?ers. They brought
 their v/eapons with them and pledged to fight against the enemy.
 3-3-36   '                                           '
 A convoy of Mujahideen was attacked by enemy helicopters,near the Iran Afghan border in Ghooryan district. Two trucks full of food stuffs which Were on the way to Mujahideen bases were hit by rockets and took fire. The enemy also landed troops who faced Mujahideen 1 s resistance. No casualties of both sides is given yet,
 14-9-36
 Khuaja Mohammad an important Mujahid of Fanjshix was martyred when he was hit by avalanche in the mountains of Pushghoor. He and his brother Chah Nazar, joined the armed resistance in 1973. Shah Nazar a capable commander was martyred in 1934 along with 20 other Mujahideen who were caught in an ambush, Khuaja was very famous for his hard work and his abilities in organizing logistic missions in the mountainous snow-cove- . rd territories in Fanjshir. His death was a big loss for commander Has-soud.
 16-3-86
 SIXTEEN REFUGEES VBEE MARTYRED
 A truck full of refugees hit a land mine at Kuram agency of Pakistan*, a few kilometers, from Afghan border. Sixteen people were martyred.
 These-people were returning from a wedding ceremony in one of the refugee camps# This is one incident in a series of attacks against refugees and Pakistani targets planned by KGB. The purpose of these sabotage works which is directed against civilians is to create unrest amongst the population and force the Pakistani government to change its policy towards the occupying forces in Afghanistan. Soviets want to destabilize Pakistan by subversive activities, a policy which they have followed since the creation of Pakistan.
 1-3-86                      BAGHLAN  PROVINCE
 Mujahideen of Andarab district attacked a militia post in Shashan side valley. Two militia men were killed. One Mujahid named Ibhammad Uoor was martyred during the operation.
                      ENBM7 OFFENSIVE IN NAJHRIN
 The combined^enemy forces launched their offensive on 6-2-1986, The enemy forces were composed of armoured units moving under the cover of helicopters. The purpose of the enemy was to attack Mujahideen bases in
 the area and carry usual search operations.
 Mujahideen under Abdul Hay, the Commander of Jamiat in Nahrin ambushed the enemy in a village called Mr&kash, a few kilometers away from Hah-rin garrison. Three tanks were destroyed either by mines or AFG fire.
 The next day the enemy wanted to capture the high ground around the gar-
 rison