AFGHANews Voi 6, No 15, August 1,1990, page ©
Soviet Mufti
to any role for Najib
Yuli Vorentsov's proposal that some powers of Najib be transferred to an election commission representing all parties in the conflict has generated optimism in foreign circles interested in finding a political solution to the problems of Afghanistan. The resistance has rejected the proposal.
Vorentsov is the Soviet Ambassador to the UN. He has served as the Soviet Ambassador to Kabul during and after the Soviet troop withdrawal.
Vorentsov's plan, recommends a symbolic role for Najib during elections. Najib's control of the army, secret police and media will be transferred to the election commission representing all parties, including the regime.
This proposal is not officially tabled yet but observers believe that it might be discussed in the coming meeting of Soviet and US foreign ministers in the Siberian city of Irkurtsk. The US earlier had proposed a phased plan according to which Najib had to resign from his post at some stage after the beginning of the political process for solving the issue. It is thought that Vorentsov's proposal is a modified form of the US plan.
BBC quoting Najib reported that he was read.y to hand over some of his powers to a representative council to achieve peace. But later Najib said he Was misunderstood. Najib said he was not ready to limit his power but wanted a commission formed from both sides. Mujahideen and regime, to help keep the peace during elections.
Abdul Wakil, the Kabul regime foreign minister, said Najibullah must lead the country during the transitional phase. He said outside powers cannot impose leaders on the Afghans. These are the words of the minister of a regime which was brought to power by Soviet armed forces on December 27, 1979. The Soviet Union fought to impose it on the people for nine years arid its survival depends on Soviet economic, military and political support.
Recently the regime defence minister ruled out de-politicizing the regime army and secret police, saying that the prevailing situation in the country did not permit such a change.
US efforts to reach an agreement, with the Soviet Union on apolitical solution to the problem of Afghanistan are not directly related to the Afghan resistance. Normally, the US coordinates its efforts with Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. The resistance is informed about the decisions after they have been taken.
The Kabul regime and the Soviet Union coordinate their activities. Minor public differences of opinion between the two are allowed to give credibility to the regime and to strengthen the position of the Soviet Union in the negotiations;
To promote a political solution of the Afghan problem, Peter Tomsen, US special envoy to the Afghan resistance, met with the former king, Zahir Shah, in Rome on July 9 and 10. The two sides discussed the Afghan situation. Talking to VOA, Tomsen said the United States considered the former king part of the Afghan resistance. He said the king was a prominent Afghan figure who had opposed the Soviet-imposed Kabul regime on many occasions.
Tomsen's visit with the former king will give further weight to the argument by some of the resistance leaders that the US wants to see the king back in power. United States officials have denied the changes saying their country did not prefer any group or individual among the Afghan resistance.	$
The US-Mujahideen relations suffered another setback when the intelligence committee of the US Senate decided to propose a 33% cut in US military support to the Mujahideen in the coming fiscal year.
’file US decision comes at a time when the Soviet Union military support which reaches $300-400 million per month still continues.
The US law makers are critical of their government’s Afghan policy and
seeks release of PO Ws
A delegation of Soviet Muslims headed by Mufti Mohammad Sadyk Mamayusupov tried to secure the release of Soviet prisoners of war from Mujahideen custody during its 10-day tour of Pakistan.
Sadyk is the chairman of the USSR Muslim Religious Board for Central Asia and Kazakhstan.
He held talks with Professor Mujaddidi, the President of the Afghan Interim Government, on July 25 in Peshawar and discussed with him the issue of Soviet prisoners of war.
The Soviets say there are more than 300 Soviet servicemen who went missing in Afghanistan and who are thought to be in the custody of the Mujahideen.
Talking to newsmen on his arrival, the Mufti said the Soviet Muslims were keen to see an end to the Afghan war.
The Mujahideen want to exchange Soviet prisoners of war with Mujahideen captured by the Soviet and regime forces.
The President of the Russian Federation has said his republic will halt shipments of weapons produced on its territory to Afghanistan in a bid to win the release of Soviet prisoners of war.
Boris Yeltsin was quoted as saying the republic's big weapons industry would be forced to answer to the new Russian government. "If today they are fighting inside our boys are suffering; the situation must change." Yeltsin told mothers of Soviet prisoners.
"We are talking not about Kalshnikovs, but about rockets which are built by factories in the Russian federation." Yeltsin said.
fHelp us publish
‘Please send your donations to the fottouring account number:
ynHWD Account 9{p. 735-37 (Habib (Bank^Ltd.
‘Teheed (Bald, (Peshawar (Pakistan
__________________!___________
TheMujahideen reject Vorentsov's proposal because it involves "die Kabul , regime in the political process. On the might. be disappointed by the lack of other hand, the nominal transfer of Mujahideen progress in the battlefield, power from Najib to a newly formed the decision will not improve the commission does not change the na- situation. It makes the Mujahideen ture of the regime institutions which wea^er niilitanly and passes the signal are organized on a party basis, to the Soviets that time is in their favor.
IiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiii
By: Habibur Rahman
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiill