AFGHANews Vol 6, No 14, July 15,1990, page ©
1,426
in tunnel
More than 1,400 Muslim pilgrims were killed and large number injured in a stampede in an overcrowded pedestrian tunnel near the holy city of Mecca on June 25.
As throngs of the faithful crossed a pedestrian bridge in Mina, a railing gave way under the pressure. Seven worshipers plunged 8 meters, smashing into even greater waves of people at the mouth of a 550-meter-long tunnel dug through a mountain to ease the pilgrims journey. The rain of bodies brought foot traffic to a halt, but at the tunnel's opposite end other hajjis, unaware of the human blockade, continued to shove forward. Soon the passageway was jammed with some 50,000 people, many times more than its capacity. Next, according to survivors, for reasons still unexplained, the lights in the tunnel went out and the ventilation system failed, on a day when the temperature outside was a searing 44 centigrade.
Then came mad panic. In the scramble to escape, hundreds were crushed under the feet of crowd; others collapsed in the airless heat.
One day before the tunnel tragedy, 4,000 tents took fire in Mina. Since the pilgrims were not present at the
time of the fire, nobody was killed.
Four hundred and fifty tones of sacrificial meat were brought to the Afghan refugees in Pakistan from Saudi Arabia. This was the seventh times that meat was flown for Afghan refugees.
The meat of animals sacrificed by pilgrims near Mecca are flown to different countries in Africa and Asia to feed the poor.
The transportation expenditures of the meat are bom jointly by the Islamic Development Bank and the Saudi Government.
About 2,000 Afghans could not perform Hajj due to visa problems or the unavailability of plane seats. Some of these men and women had come from Afghanistan and had walked for many days to reach Pakistan. The attempts by Mujahideen officials to get them visas and plane seats failed because the deadline to issue visas had expired. Many of these who could not go to the holy land returned to their places with a heavy heart. Last year the Saudi government arranged special flights to take the Afghan Hajjis who could not go by ordinary Hajj flights.
From internal Mujahideen press
Mosque built in Kunduz
The foundation stone of a mosque was laid in Kunduz by the local Ulama on May 23, HINA reported.
The mosque, constructed in Coba-i-Sufla village, in addition to the main praying hall will have rooms for a ma-drasa ( religious school and a Holy Quran memorization center.
Initially, 25 students will be taught in the madrasa and 20 students will memorize the Holy Quran.
The construction costs of the mosque will be paid by Arbab Ali Ahmad, the Mujahideen commander of the area, and Rahmatullah, a local notable.
In a meeting held on the occasion several Ulama spoke about the importance of learning. The students of the local school sang revolutionary songs.
Council trains paramedics
A three-month training course for the Health Committee workers of the SC began on May 12, HINA reported.
Students from Badakhshan, Takhar, Kunduz, Baghlan, Samangan and Balkh province are taught by the doctors from the Training Center of the Health Committee.
The expenses of the training are bom by the Health Committee. In the previous three rounds of training a total of 17 students graduated. The Training Center was established in 1988.
Football played in Taliqan
Khanabad and Taliqan football teams faced each other in an exciting match on June 1.
Bach team scored one goal ending the contest in a draw. The football match, played in Taliqan, was watched by thousands of Mujahideen, school children and local people.
$bviet Foreign Minister Edvard Shayardnadzf used Afghanistaii as an example to justify his country's foreign policy in	P
The army General, Albert Makashov had ctfrldzed die Soviet
to be withdrawn!^ East|rn Surope without resistance.;. ■
In reply, Shavardnadze wrote in that should remember
in the Afjglian capital
bn;. Saturday^ when;;'.:'themercury touched 3? degrees centigrade <984 degrees Fahrenheit), a regime spokesman saidoqJune	'
|he previot«; ■ highest;: temperature 10 |§^ ago was 36 degrees cen figr&de <98.8 Fahrenheit).'
mm. during "the;J§k; of
Fah§^eh|; officials said;.# ••
President
donation of 5,000 dollars fcyt victims of ,'the devastating earthquake In neighboring Iran, the Regime radio
awai
NajibuflafE sent a message ; of condolence tq his Iranian counterpart and signed a condolence book at the franian %bSy here on June 24.
*«♦
AH 1,525 Soviet Muslims per-fbmihg this; year,s^|i^Ji;;b&ca were guests of KingFahd
Minister in charge of '^aire* said he; was ordered'by
of the
RussianiSt|i from the moment of their arrival at the airport until their depattu^;#:;:f
the> government ;■ .will pay for the guests' bills for accommod#^ find
food, -jllllf-	...
♦*#
The|j|ttsi ' CoordM|^gfor
Humanitarian Assistance to
Affchamsfcirt Jsifeddid
the Kabul regime Najibuliah, Prime
; Minister Fari HaqKl^Sqyar, ■
^>