r
v*
Ar&HAHem Voll Ro 12, Juno 15,im Page5
Gorbachov misses a valuable gift
which resulted in fhe destruction of three trucks and two tanks in Maa$pkhail on May 2S. The Mujahideen lost one man and two others were wounded.
The second attack was launched on a Soviet convoy in Dashti Baidak areas of Kulangar on May 30. As a result, more than ten APCs were destroyed and some of their crews were killed Two Mujahideen were killed and six others wounded in the operation.
5
®The Mujahideen from Jami at under the command of Mullah Nawab attacked a DR A post in Kulangar district on May 28. As a result of Which two enemy heavy weapons positions were destroyed, 12 soldiers killed and eight others wounded.
One Mujahid was killed and two others wounded.
MnHBHHampppWi
Kabul regime sets two Western
hostages free
ALLA IN Guttle, a French journalist who was arrested by the Communist regime while covering the war, was released by the regime on May 27 after Mitterand sent a letter to Najib. He had been imprisoned for ten years on charges of 'spying'.
Sources say that Mitterands message requested a pardon on humanitarian grounds and no political consideration was involved.
Later an Italian journalist who was also captured by the regime forces and tried on charges of 'spying' was released on the same manner.
Najib who is seeking recognition by the international community used the two Western journalists as hostages.
GORBACHEV received gifts from friendly peace movements who had come to Moscow. He missed a gift which should have been presented to him by Afghan children.
The gifts which were given to Gorbachev were intended to congratulate him for his peace initiatives*!).
The missing gift was the butterfly mine dropped by Soviet planes in Afghan villages offered by three
COMMANDER Guizar decided to die to save the life of some others. An eyewitness tells the details of what happened to the brave commander of the Mujahideen at the eve of a major victory.
Guizar had been assigned as the operation commander in the planned attack against the enemy garrison in Tanbana in Panjshir.
One day before the attack. Guizar was testing a new type of hand-grenade he was given. The area he was testing the grenade was a deep valley. He told his men to stand away from him and watch while he threw the grenade towards the bottom of the valley.
He opened the safety pen and heard the click of the firing pin. He had a few seconds to throw the grenade. Suddenly three old men appeared in the area he was supposed to throw the grenade. He did not thrgw the grenade in fear of killing the old men. The sudden explosion of the grenade in his hand ended his life. He
maimed Afghan children, one from a workers family, one from a peasant family and another from the son of an intellectual, the mine presented would have been picked up from afarm In an Afghan villagp.
If Gorbachev has in mind another gift-jtaking ceremony, Afghans areregdy to send the three membecA ©legate of maimed children to present to him the gift ffcdeserves.
sacrificed himself to save the life of his people.
It seems © hard decision hut for thosewhq knew Guizar this was notupusual. He always thought about others before thiftkifig about himself.
Soviets steal Afghan gold
THERE are definite plans by Russians to remove to the Soviet Union the Bactiran gold treasures found by a joint Afghan-Soviet team in 1978 from Tela Taipa site near Taj Kurghan in Samangan province.
Doubtful of the survival of the Communist regime after their troops withdrawal, the Soviets want to take valuable property of an historic nature.
It is believed that a great number of historical items belonging to the National Museum in Kabul have been taken to the Soviet Union.
Guizar sets example of self-sacrifice