AFGHAN NEWS VOL, 111. NO. 15&16, 15/8/87 PAGE 2
a society in which the rights of minorities were well-protec-ted--uniess they engaged in acts of treason. It was a society in which the distinction between elite and masses had disappeared to the extent that a 17 year old son of a former slave could become the commander of an army in which the former nobles and the prominent members of the present society would serve as ordinary soldiers •••• And the list could go on and on and on.
rights of minorities were wel1-protected--unless they engaged in acts of treason. It was a society in which the distinction between elite and masses had disappeared to the extent that a 17 year old son of a former.slave ould become the commander of an army in which the former nobles and the prominent members of the present society would serve as ordinary soldiers. ...And the list could go on and on and on.
3. The goal of an islamic government is to establish
a moral and just, society. This is not an end in itself.
The purpose of having a moral and just society is to enable all the members to develop their God-yiven human potentialities and to move towards perfection. In the same way that the potentials of a seed need the right conditions to actualize into a tree and bear fruits; human potentials can be actualized in a society in which moral values prevail, there is no oppression and injustice, poverty and chronic diseases are eliminated, and everyone has the opportunity to work for his/her- development. Only strong and sincere belief in God and folowiijg his genuine guidance could lead into the establishment of such a society--not the abolishment of private property nor giving a free hand to the "invisible hand” of the market.
4.  In an Islamic society sovereignty belongs to God first, and then to the people as a whole in the form of trusteeship. This means that a ruler or a small group of elite cannot claim to be "sovereign," It also means that people can exercise their sovereignty only within the framwork
of Shariat (Islamic law). That is. they cdnnot make any laws that run counter to the commands of God and His Messenger.
5.  implementation of Shariat, including its penal code, is an important duty of the Islamic government. But it should be noted that it is only one of its duties--and that only after the ground work for inculcation of the Islamic values and implementation of the Islamic principles is done. Islamic penal code does not provide for "reeducation" of a criminal because education must be provided to all the members of the society beforehand. Moreover.
the causes of crimes must be eliminated before the accused person could be punished. It should also be noted that the requirements for evidence in the Islamic penal code are so strict that only a small percentage of the accused ones could possibily be convicted. The punishment of the criminal will aim at deterring others From committinu similar crimes.
6.  According to the Holy Quran, a characteristic of the Muslims is that they conduct their affirs on the basis of mutual consultation (42:38). This is a principle that could be applied at different levels--e.g., family, small