AFGHANews Vol7, No 1, January 1,1991, page.®
From the Diary of Jehad
Part (3)
Supervisory Council welcomes Mujaddidi
Mohammad Es'haq Before the end of our discussion Masood got a message that Prof. Mujaddidi was on his way to the North. He asked me to postpone my trip to Panjshir until the end of Mujaddidi's trip.
Prof. Mujaddidi reached Piew, in the upper part of Worsaj Valley, on September 16. He was greeted by Masood and a delegation of Takhar dignitaries. Mujaddidi was accompanied by 200 men, including some officials of the AIG, ranking members Of his party and bodyguards.
The guests spent the first night in Piew. Masood, who had just recovered from malaria, tried to serve his guests in the best possible way.
In the morning the guests started their journey, in a convoy comprised of 20 cars and trucks, towards Khanaqa, the center of Worsaj. At noon they reached Khanaqa where they were greeted by thousands of Mujahideen, students and elders of the area.
Prof. Mujaddidi addressed the gathering and showed pleasure that he was able to meet them for the first time in a decade of Jehad. A representative of SC welcomed Prof. Mujaddidi and his entourage. Enthusiastic school children sang revolutionary songs. This was the second biggest gathering the town had seen in ten years. Two years ago, Prof. Rabbani was also given a warm welcome by the locals when visited Worsaj.
After noon prayer and lunch the guests visited the Cultural Committee of the SC. The convoy, which had grown in size, moved towards Farkhar. At night Prof. Mujaddidi reached the military school of SC where he and his friends were lodged. The next day Prof. Mujaddidi addressed a gathering of people who had come from different parts of Takhar to meet him.
In the afternoon, Mujaddidi held talks with Masood in which important political and military issues came under discussion.
Masood also held separate talks with prominent members of Prof. Mujaddidi's delegation. These talks were followed by several other meetings held during a week-long stay of Prof. Mujaddidi in the area.
Masood praised the leadership of
Prof. Mujaddidi and advised him to broaden the base of the AIG to make it a representative body. Both opposed any attempt by individual parties to replace the Kabul regime.
They believed that any major decision affecting the future of the country should be decided jointly by all effective forces in the country.
Prof. Mujaddidi was informed of the military and non-military programs of SC.
On September 19, Professor Mujaddidi visited Faikhar. He was warmly received by the local people and Mujahideen. He addressed a huge gathering in the central mosque of the city. After spending one night in suburbs of Taliqan, he arrived the city in the morning of September 20. Thousands of people greeted Prof. Mujaddidi. He addressed a huge gathering in the center of the city describing his policies.
He led the Friday prayers in the central mosque of Taliqan and laid the foundation stone of a religious school.
The next day he visited two schools, an abandoned Soviet base, and the city hospital. He received many delegations coming from different parts of the North.
Prof. Mujaddidi and his entourage were impressed by the way the Mujahideen were running the city of Taliqan, the biggest city controlled by the Mujahideen. Taliqan	is jointly
ruled by three parties, Jami'at, Harakat and Hezb (Khalis group). It has a governor and a uniformed police force. The law and order situation is ideal.
During his stay	Professor
Mujaddidi was informed of the incident of Tang-i-Faikhar in which a number of prominent Jami'at commanders were murdered by Sayyed Jamal's men of Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar).
A video film in which the culprits had admitted about their crimes was shown to him. Prof. Mujaddidi had taken a strong stand on the incident when it happened and condemned it This stand earned Pro. Mujaddidi a good reputation in the area which was demonstrated during his visit.
It seemed that Prof. Mujaddidi was highly impressed by the achievements of the SC. He left for Pakistan after seven days and was accorded a warm send off.

From page (4)
Haldmi has tried to keep the pottery handicraft of his native town, Istalif, alive. He was afraid that continued Soviet occupation of Afghanistan might result in the destruction that art. He had started to make pottery in Peshawar but faced shortage of funds and skilled workers.
Hakimi feels happy that his people have resumed their pottery work and once more the beautiful pottery from Istalif is reaching the towns and villages of Afghanistan. This was possible due to improved security in the liberated areas after the Soviet troop withdrawal and the liberation of Istalif by the Mujahideen last summer.
Editorial
From page (4) will, but made it stronger. Ten years of Jehad must have sent a clear message to the Soviet leaders that the time is past when Moscow chose governments inKabuL
Devetopments in Moscow demand that the international community should maintain pressure on Moscow to change its Afghan policy and let Afghans decide their future. Afghan Mujahideen also should prepare themselves for a longer struggle in case events in Moscow lead to a prolonged intervention by the Soviet Union in Afghanistan.
Jami'at garners second position
The Mujahideen volleyball team won second place in a four-day tournament held in Peshawar. Thirty-six teams took part in the games.
The final match was played on Saturday, December 22, between Jami'at Islami Afghanistan and the Daud Shah team of Bannu.
In the tournament 32 teams from N.WF.P and four teams of Afghan refugees took part A large number of Pakistanis and Afghans watched the games, which were played in Sahahi Bagh of Peshawar.
The Daud Shah team won the final game 3-0, and became the champion of the tournament pushing the Jamiat team into second place.