ATCHAHsw ¥ol4. Ho 14, July 15,1988, Page 5
Injured In the operation,
Nangarhar
THE Mujahideen from Jam i at liberated Lai Poor sub-district in Nangarhar province capturing 30 Kalashinkov rifles, two mortars and two Gorinov machine guns on June 20,
The operation was conducted by a large group of Mujahideen led by Commander Wall Khan Karookhail,
The Mujahideen also captured some important documents belonging to the puppet regime,
Faryab
THE Mujahideen from Jamlat clashed with D8A units around Faryab city killing 25 soldiers including an officer and capturing five Kalashiakov rifles and destroying two APCs on June 15.
In retaliation the enemy bombed a number of houses killing more than 20 residents and destroying some houses.
The Mujahideen lost one man and four others were wounded in the operation which lasted for three hours. Different units of BRA forces including Samiaoy (paramilitary unit) and militiamen had taken part in the fighting.
wwwBHBwwwmm minimiiiim
Children die of heat stroke in refugee camps
TENS of refugee children and elderly persons died during June because of heat stroke and lack of drinking water
Since June doctors have recorded eight cases of death in Shams hate, six in Afcora Khatafc and four in Munda camps. The victims are mainly children.
who "s who in the Mujahideen
Commander Khan Agha
KHAW Agha34, vas born in the Tillage of Qaia-e-Murad Beg in the district of Shakar Bara, a northern suburb of the city of Kabul. His father, Khen B&baAyas a farmer working throughout of his life in Qalai Murad Beg on the farm and sometimes in the city as a manual worker.
Khan Aghas father did not want to send his son to school. He wanted him to help the family.
But later he changed his mind and sent him to the Qaiad Murad Beg school.
After completing, his high school, Khan Agha joined Kabul Nursing School.
In 1972 he completed Nursing School and started working in Aliabad Hospital In Kabul. For six years he worked there and then he was transferred to Samang&n province to work in the Kluilm Hospital.
By now Khan Agha was called Dr. Khan Agha, After two year^ of work in Kbuim he was transferee to Full Khumri district of Baghlaa province in 1978.
When the Communists took power he was still working in Fail Khumri.
“Three months after the Communist coup. Khan Agha left his job as a doctor and went to the mountains of Behani Ghuri (a sub-district of Baghlan) to join the first j small groups formed against the Communists," said his cousin who lives in Peshawar, They formed a group and attacked the office of the sub-district in Be han I GhurL The office was captured , two government officers were killed and seme weapons were seized.' said his representative In Peshawar. A month later tbs puppet regime
launched an offensive and recaptured the area.
“No one had experience in the beginning, everything was disorganized. No one knew what to do as far as organizational work was concerned/ said a wounded friend who worked with Khan Agha in 1978-79.
Khan Agha came to his own village in Shakar Data 15 kilometer North of the city of Kabul
Khan Agha formed his own group of Mujahideen, He started to ambush government convoys on the Satang highway which passes throng the area. In a short time, he became a known commander.
In the fall of 1931 Khan Agha made a trip to the Panjshir valley to meet Commander Masood.
Khan Agha came to Peshawar in 1988 in order to brief Prof. Rabbani. the leader of jami&t islami, regarding his activities. He returned after four months slay in Peshawar to Shakar Bara,
In the last six years Khan Agha has worked very hard to establish a better organization.
He has survived many Russian offensives. In the summer of 1986- he was able to capture around 10 out-posts during three weeks of operation, Khan Agha was also able to establish a central base at Bolianaand expand operational zones up to Karaiz Mir and Hazara Baghal which is about three kilometers from the city of Kabul.
In 19S6 Khan Agha exchanged a Russian soldier with two Mujahideen who were imprisoned by them. Khan Agha was wounded once. He is married and has two children.