AFGHANews Vol5, No 1 4, July 15, 1989, page©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Arif
Commander Mohammad Arif Rustami known as Arif Khan was bom 34 years ago in a small village called Qurutak in the center of Kapisa province.
Commander Arifs father, Mohammad Rustam, a Tajik, was a poor peasant working hard to earn his living. He was known as Rustam the honest. "My father had nine sons and two daughters. Life was horrible. We could hardly find enough to eat. We were mostly hungry. Now think of our clothes how difficult they were to get," said Arif Khan's younger brother who is now doing medical training in Peshawar.
Commander Arif completed his primary, middle and high school in the Dehbali high school. "1 remember my brother walking two hours to reach school mostly bearfoot," said his brother Mohammad Deen.
Commander Arif Khan went to Kabul and enrolled in Kabul Police Academy. He completed the Academy in three years scoring the highest marks. "He was an intelligent student and worked very hard," said one of his classmates.
Arif Khan was appointed a police officer in Herat province and he was posted to a unit along the border with Iran.
"In two days the young officer from a very poor family was sent to that remote area," said his brother.
The young officer went to his first assignment when he was 22 years old. He stayed there for two years, far from his birth place, a mountainous village, until the communists took power in 1978.
Arif Khan was amongst the first officers who joined the Mujahideen . "He was one of those officers such as Allauddin Khan, Zabiuhullah Khan, Kamal and Ismail Khan who provided leadership for the Mujahideen in Herat,” said Haji Qari, Ismail Khan’s representative in Peshawar.
Commander Arif did hot go to Kapisa province and decided to continue Jehad in Herat against the Soviets and their puppets. He became one of the effective commanders of Herat and a close friend of Ismail Khan.
In 1984, he became the deputy for commander Allauddin Khan. His base was just on the western flank of the city of Herat. Later he went to the mountain bast; of Herat called Taghoon Koh.
Commander Arif has participated in many operations shoulder to shoulder with Ismail Khan, the Amir of Herat and Allauddin Khan, the military chief.
Commander Arif got married in Herat in 1983. far from his parents. "No one from his relatives was present at his wedding ceremony," said his brother.
"Four years ago we all went to see him. My mother met her Mujahid son after seven years," recalled his brother. "The day when my mother met Arif was unforgettable to us. My mother was crying," added his brother.
"I am proud of you. You are a Mujahid, a soldier of Islam," said his mother to Arif when they met after seven years in exile.
Commander Arifs family lives in Iran. Once a year Arif goes to Iran to visit his mother. Arif has two children.
Engineers Mill
• iSf:
Six U.S universities arc planning to help reconstruction in Afghanistan by offering engineering courses to Afghans in Peshawar, Pakistan, an American professor has said.
They will co-operate with an existing programme run in Peshawar by the International Rescue Committee, a humanitarian relief group, said Prof. Edward A. Friedman.
Friedman, professor of management at Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, New Jersey, who is coordinating the six-university programme, said he had just relumed from a week-long visit to the Pakistan border.
The Afghan Mujahideen have already created infrastructures in agriculture,. education and medicine in the eastern portion of Afghanistan, Friedman said.
A number of road and irrigation projects are underway and the Mujahideen are planning a reservoir for the city of Balkh, he said.
Friedman said the Kabul engineering programme, in which the Stevens Institute was a major participant, was forced to cldse in Kabul during the 1978 communist revolution. Soviet forces, which entered the country in 1979, have now left, but a pro-Soviet government remains in power in Kabul.
Participants in the new group are the Stevens Institute, the university of Cincinnati, Catholic University, University of Wyoming, Colorado State University and the University of Nebraska.
Commander Jaffer
Commander Jaffer was bom 38 years ago in Qum Araigh of Aqcha district, Jawzjan province. His father, Sayed Gharib was a poor villager living as an ordinary fanner. He could not send his son to the school due to his poverty. His family was a Pushtoon one living amongst the non-Pushtoons.
When the communists took over in 1978 Jaffer was told by his father to participate in the Jihad. "His father ad-visedall his five sons to take aims and help those who fight against communists," said Jaffers's representative in Peshawar.
"Jaffer went to the Jami'at Islami commander in Aqcha and asked him to
give him a weapon. Jami'at commander, martyr Ghulam Ghous, gave him a shotgun. Jaffer became a fighter helping other Mujahideen. "Showing courage and dedication Jaffer became a group commander," said his representative.
Commander Jaffer attracted more people and launched attacks against the gas pipe-line running through his area. In the first three years. Commander Jaffer was able to capture at least 50 weapons.
In 1980 he became the village commander and in 1982 the district commander.
Jaffer has learned fighting through fighting. He personally leads
his men in action against the enemy .In the operations of February 1985, July 1986, and November 1987, Commander Jaffer and his Mujahideen inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. In February 1985 he ambushed a big convoy of the Russians' on the Mazar-Sheberghan road in which he was able to destroy five tanks and armored cars and ten jeeps and trucks.
Commander Jaffer broke the siege of the city of Aqcha in July 1986 sue cessfully. His Mujahideen along with other Mujahideen of other parties fought well for 28 days. Many civilians were killed, crops were burnt and animals decimated by the Russians.
Commander Jaffer is a good horse rider. He is married. He has lost his mother and one brother in the war.