AFGHANews Vol 8, No 20, October 15, 1992, page©
I was reading Mujahid Wolas, a paper published by an Afghan in exile, when an article by Hasan Kakar attracted my attention. Hasan Kakar, a former professor of Kabul University, has studied history and now lives as a refugee in the United States. of America.
I had mci Prof. Kakar in Peshawar and was impressed by his scholarly manners. But his article about the transfer of power from the communist regime to Lhc Mujahideen, and events which foliowed,
disappointed me......
The article was based on facile assumptions, rumors and propaganda by opponents of the Islamic government. Ethnic and tribal prejudices glared through its text.
I appreciate the difficulties of-writing about the complicated and often fluid situation in Afghanistan. Writers often can't find reliable written source's. Travel to and inside Afghanistan is difficult, and various groups make conflicting claims about every event. '■
Despite all this, writers on Afghanistan must try to avoid pitfalls of a tribal, linguistic and political nature. A writer's job is lo tell people the facts. If he or she is careless or is swayed by political or other considerations, the article will mislead leaders. Eventually, once more thorough researchers expose the truth, the writer will lose credibility.
Long years of dictatorship in Afghanistan have deprived most educated Afghans of the opportunity to develop the true qualities of an intellectual: curiousity, skepticism, and a passion for the plain truth. This is a great loss indeed!
Professor Kakar claims that the events which led to the fall of Najib and the establishment of the Mujahideen government were planned and executed by Babrak Karmal. This 'conspiracy- had two victims: Najib and the UN peace plan.
He claims that Babrak hatched a conspiracy to ignite a civil war, but that self-restraint- by Commanders Jalaluddin Haqqani, Musa and Abdul Haq neutralized his evil designs.
Kakar alleges that the siege of Kabul by the forces of Masood, Dostum and Kayan took place after a coalition was formed between the three on linguistic and ethnic lines.
He labels, the government formed in Kabul a "coalition," and cites the presence of Gen. As if Dilawar in the defense ministry a proof.
He criticizes the decision of Mujahideen leaders to give the post of the Defense Ministry to Ahmad Shah Masood and Presidency to Prof. Rabbani, finding it not proportionate to the strength of Jami'at.
He seems unhappy that the Peshawar Accord has brought the ulema to'power. Verbal opposition to the Peshawar Accord by some individuals or small groups is pre-
sented as a proof of its illegitimacy.
Describing the border provinces of
Paktia, Paklika, Ningarhai and Kandahar as
important, he says that they arc controlled
by local councils nol loyal to the Islamic
government.
Criticizing the security situation in
Kabul, he claims that Kabul is divided into
vario’is districts which arc run by different
t'
By: Mohammad Es'haq
parties. He says that Khairkhana is ruled by Shoora-i-Nizar, the center of the city by Masood, and Pul-i-Charkhi, Bagrami and Darulaman by Khalis’ parly.
Prof. Kakar expresses worry' that die interim government might ask for military assistance from neighboring countries of Pakistan and Iran, and claims that Pakistani officers arc busy reorganizing the Afghan army.
He speaks at length about the illegitimacy of the government and claims that-convening a Loya Jirga (assembly of tribal leaders) is the only way of'escaping the present crises.
He also criticized the government Tor nol allowing people from outside Lhc parties (technocrats living in exile) to lake part in the government.
Some of the points he raises demand clarification, so that his errors and misurt? dersLandings won't be mistaken for historical fact by later readers.
Babrak's supposed role in engineering the fall of the Kabul regime is far from proven. Babrak, like any other politician, may have tried to exploit developments for his own political ends, but.casting him as the prime mover of an Islamic revolution requires solid evidence, which Kakar fails to present. We are aware of the claims by some members, of the defunct PDPA regarding thch role in the changes which are simply not true.
Masood exploited developments in .the north, starling with the rebellion of Gen. Momin and later Gen. Dcstum, to overthrow Najib. Labeling this a "coalition" between Shoora-i-Nizar and Dostum’s and Kayan forces, on ethnic and linguistic lines, is a hasty, unfair and inaccurate judgmenL unbefitting a scholar. Masood had fought for 14 long years Lo overthrow the communist regime in Kabul. He exploited the differences within the regime lo achieve this objective. Exploiting an enemy's weak points is natural, and no one should be criticized for doing it.
Jami’at fought alone to liberate all of Balkh's districts and half of Mazar itself. Fighting with Dostum forces for control of all Mazar, at a time when Najib was still in power, would have been madness. It could have help the regime overcome its internal differences and prolong its survival.
In the liberation of Salang, Charikar, Jabulseraj - and Bagram, -.Vmi'at fought
alone. Neither the forces of Dostum and Kayan, nor Mujahideen from other parlies were involved. The operation was launched under the command of Masood, involving only local Jami’at Mujahideen.
In the administration created in Mazar aficr its liberation, all parties were involved. Hezb lslami Khalis, Hezb of Hikmatyar, Harakal of Nabi Mohammadi, Harakal of Mohsini, Hezb Wadhal and Jami'at, together wiih military officers from, the former regime, formed an administration to run the city. Brother Hikmatyar sent his special representative, Naseem Mahdi, from Faryab to join lire administration. Hikmatyar may have chosen Nasim, an Uzbek, to play on Lhc, ethnic reelings of Lhe military officers of Lhe former regime.
Similar administrations were formed in some other provinces. In Kandahar, a council of the Mujahideen with two members from the previous regime was formed to run the city. Logar, Garde/ and Nmgarhar were handed over to the local Mujahideen commanders through ' deals with communisL officers. Manookai Mangal, the political chief or the regime army, struck a deal to turn Jalalabad over to the Mujahideen. Then, despite being a Parchami, he joined the Gulbuddin-Tani ' camp to fighL Lhe Islamic government.
In view of ail this, accusing Jami’at o forming a coalition with the forces of the former regime, based on ethnic and linguistic factors, is an injustice.
Regarding the presence of Dostum s forces in Kabul. Kakar - like many others with and without axes to grind - fyrgets that they were part of the forces of the former regime, and-had conic to Kabul before the fall of Najib. There were two ways to send them back to their areas: ] peacefully and in due Lime, and by force. Gulbuddin and his followers laid waste the capital and killed and wounded thousands of innocent people under the pretext of fighting against the "militias," but accomplished little else - and certainly nothing of military significance.
Key communist figures such as Babrak simply do not have the freedom of action lhaL Kakar s article claims. The government has given them amnesty and they have not been tried for Lheir past actions. But Kakar's impression that they play a key role in government is baseless. They arc neither on the cabinet nor on the Leadership Council which make the major decisions.
The only example that Lhe writer gives is presence-of Asif Dilawar in Lhc post of the Chief of the Army Staff. Masood never promised any posL to officers of the former regime. But the Mujahideen have acted with caution in replacing such former officials, for the sake of not disrupting the government's administrative machinery which, if it breaks down, directly affects the lives of ordinary and innocent people. Key positions are in Lhe hands of Lhc Mujahideen. .Meanwhile, the Leadership Council has decided against a massive