P-73
  d-£S?6ii_            No. 22   __________28—12-1985
  posts with ari RPG-7. The plane was hit and set on fire, six Soviet soldiers were killed. *
  16-12-85
  Soviets strenghtened their newly established garrisons in Dara by landing 200 more Soviet troops.
  In the face of intensification of the war all the party members of Par-wan province were flown into Baharak garrison (about 40km inside the-valley).
  14-12-85
  An enemy Jet was hit by Dschk fire in Hesarak side valley of Aukha and set on fire in the air. It crashed outside the Pangshir valley.
                          21        ii^§_ f ££ fir
for the first time Mujahideen of Panjshir passed over siesrnic mines field and attacked a Soviet post.
  Mine warfare in Afghanistan is becoming more and more common. At the begining of 1985 the Soviets began to use siesmic mines. These mines consist of a central device and six charges each 4 kgs. The central device activates one of the charges when some one approaches the area. The device can be adjusted to activate the charge when one person approaches or ignore one person and activate it when a group of people approach. Soviets use these mines to protect their posts and also plant them in Mujahideen controlled areas after an offensive. These mine fields are protecting posts and prevent demoralized enemy slldiers from desertion. The Soviets have abondaned the use of pressure mines in Panjshir beca-. use Mujahideen defused them first and re-planted them against the Soviets .
  Siesmic mines are new and are used by Soviet engineers. The puppet army does not know any thing about them.
  It is a good news our brave Mujahideen have been able to discover ways of defusing these mines. We will share the knowledge with other Mujahideen fronts to avoid casualties.
                           ^ERS_TO_BE HURRIED
  The .Soviet invasion has not only made million of Afghans homeless it has
  also-.'destroyed the resting places of millions of Afghans who have died
  in the past.
  Afghans respect graveyards and visit them on special occasion to say prayers for the souls of those who have passed. Now the Soviets are driving their.tanks on graveyards and in Panjshir have leveled a graveyard of about 500 years old to build a Helipad.