  AFGHAN NEWS____YQJLJL1___N<L_22___15/11/1986   PAGE 3
 15/10/1986. Mujahideen of Gulbahar ( a town in the mouth of the P&ajshir valley) attacked the enemy post at Rah-i-Taag. Three puppet soldiers were captured and one officer killed. The Mujahideen siezed two PK machineguns and five AK-47$.The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
 16/10/13986 A Soviet convoy was ambushed by the Mujahideen from ShotoK a small narrow valley situated between the Salang and Panjshir vallieys) on the Salang Highway inside the Salang valley. As a result of a 6 hour battle 50 wehicles carrying ammunition and 3 APCs were destroyed. About 100 Soviet soldiers were either killed or wounded. The attack started at 2:00 PM. and continued till 8:00 PM.
 Salang is a narrow valley through which the Salang highway passes. This highway connects the Soviet border to Kabul. It is the most important transportation route which the Soviets use The Mujahideen are quite well organized in the valleys around this highway and regularly attack this enemy life-line.
 The Mujahideen of Shotoi are commanded by Commander Saeed a pious and dedicated Jami’at figure in the area.
                                          JA WZJANPROVINCE
 l4/8/l986.According to a late report from Sancharak district, Mujahideen from Jamiat attacked a resupply convoy of the enemy fighting continued for ten long days. 4 tanks and 4 trucks were destroyed by land mines or rocket fire from the Mujahideen. 15 puppet troops joined Mujahideen and brought their weapons with themfnemy casualties were believed to be high but no precise figure is available .4 Mujahideen and 10 civilians were martyred while 21 Mujahideen and 19 civilians were wounded. The enemy used jets and helicopters against the Mujahideen. Two heavy weapons of the Mujahideen were destroyed by the enemy fire.
                                          TAKHAS PROVINCE
 According to a report which was sent by the Council of the North, the enemy launched an offensive against Ferkhar district on 3/11/1986. After suffering heavy casualties the enemy reached close to the city of Ferkhar. The perpose of the attack seems to be to re-establish the garrison which they lost some time ago. Fighting is continuing.
                                           HERAT PROVINCE
 Afghan News recieved a letter from Esmaeel Khan the chief commander of Herat. The letter was written on 5/10/1986, Here are some important points from the letter:
 1- The siege of Herat which started on 19/7/1986 is still continuing,
 2- The enemy is putting great pressure on the Mujahideen by the extensive use of the airforce and long-range artillery.
 3- The enemy is planning to continue this situation by bringing in more troops.
 4- Our problems are:
       a) Shortage of arms and ammunition
       b) Shortage of food for the Mujahideen and the people
       c) Shortage of medicine and clothes
 5- Enemy casualties are high. According to our sources inside the enemy their
 casualties so far have reached up to 450 dead and wounded.
 6- We have captured 200 enemy troops (puppets) and 180 guns of different types,