AFGHANews Vol8, No 7, April 1,1992, page ©
Masood asks Mujahideen to coordinate operations
In an interview with Al-ehad, an Arabic magazine published in Peshawar, Commander Ahmad shah Masood has said that the new Afghan year will be a witness to major developments and asked all the Mujahideen eaders to coordinate their military activities around Kabul.
He said that he would close Salang highway permanently if the Mujahideen parties agreed on a plan of action against the regime around Kabul.
Talking to Al-Jehad in Panjshir, Masood said the Mujahideen should wiped out the regime bases around
Kabul before launching any operation against the capital itself and warned that the Mujahideen should not repeat the mistakes they committed in Jalalabad.
Rejecting the rumors about ethnic rift among the Mujahideen, Masood said the rumors were spread to weaken the resistance. "We are Muslims and have fought Jehad under the banner of Islam to establish an Islamic government in Kabul," he stated. He said those who promoted the cause of Tajiks belonged to Setami-i-Milli, a faction of PDPA whom he defeated last Summer in Takhar forcing their leader, Samad, to flee to Kabul.
Mujahideen pose no threat to security of Uzbekistan
The Defense Minister of Uzbekistan Rostam Ahmadov has said an Islamic government in Kabul poses no threat to his country, VO A reported.
He said the situation in Afghanistan was complicated and hoped that Afghans would live in peace.
He rejected the argument that the removal of Najib from power through peaceful means or war and formation of a 'fundamentalist' government in Kabul posed a threat to Uzabekistan.
Uzbekistan has 150 kilometers of common border with Afghanistan. The majority of Uzbekistn's population are Muslims.
The Kabul regime has signed an agreement with Uzbekistan to buy 100 million kilowatts of electricity during the year 1992. The electricity will be sold to the factories and residential areas in Balkh and Jawzjan provinces.
The road from Uzbekistan border to Kabul is becoming insecure due to problems between militiamen and the the regime. Farid Mazdak, a leading Watan Party leader, has suggested deployment of a UN peace-keeping force in Afghanistan to keep the roads open.
Prof. Asghar, the head of Salvation Society, a pro-Zahir Shah group based in Kabul, has said the UN soldiers should be introduced in Afghanistan to keep the roads open. He said militiamen were blocking roads for ransom. He said if UN could deploy its troops in Yugoslavia, why they could not be deployed in Afghanistan.
All of Mazdak's family, except his wife, have gone to Tajikistan to settle
there. An informed source said a considerable number of regime people have bought houses and shops in the newly liberated Central Asian republics - especially in Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.
The Kabul regime has said Afghan students studying in Russia, Uzbekistan, Kasakhslan and Tajikistan will not be asked to pay hard currency.
The minister of higher education of the regime has said that the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) has decided to fulfil its obligations towards the agreements signed with the foreign countries and Afghan students will continue to study based on the agreements signed with the former Soviet Union.
More than 7,500 Afghan students study in CIS states. In addition to that, thousands of Afghan children are also in CIS states.
News from Battleields
From page (2)
ons. Commander Arif Khan reported. Fighting still continued when this report was filed.
Jawzjan Province
The Mujahideen of Jami'at liberated Faizabad sub-District in Aaqcha on March 13 after defeating the regime forces stationed there. Commander Alam Khan reported. The Mujahideen seized one tank, one jeep, one antiaircraft gun, 700 pieces of light weapons and some ammunition.
Baghlan Province
■More than 100 militiamen and soldiers were killed and many were injured when militiamen of Kayan group clashed with units from KHAD and police in Baladuri, close to the city of Puli Khumri, on March 16, Commander Abdul Hay Haqjo reported.
•The Mujahideen of Jami'at captured ten regime soldiers and seized 12 Kalashnikov rifles, one PK machine-gun, one RPG rocket launcher and some ammunition in Dooshir District on March 13.
•The Mujahideen captured 20 regime troops and seized 36 Kalashnikov rifles, one mortar, two P.K machine guns, two RPG rocket launchers and some ammunition on March 23 Commander Axbab Juma reported. The troops were stationed in security posts east of the city of Baghlan.
•Nine militiamen surrendered to the Mujahideen on March 23 in Haji Khalil village of Hasantal, close to the Baghlan city, bringing with them nine Kalashnikov rifles, one RPG rocket launcher and some ammunition.