AE&HANots Volt No 18, Sftptemtw 13,1988, Page3
AFGHANews
PO Box 264, Peslisvar-PaScistatt Tel: 41381
EDITORIAL
Firmness answer to Soviets' adventurous designs
REPEATED aerial violation deep inside Pakistan, sabotage incidents and ground violation of the borders of Pakistan by the puppet regime mth the consent of the Soviet Union have created serious doubts about Soviet intentions to disengage themselves from the tear in Afghanistan.
The escalation has taken place immediately after the tragic death of President Zia. Violations have increased alter months of intense propaganda by the Soviets and the puppet regime about the alleged violations of the Geneva accords by Pakistan,
On one hand the Soviets want to test the nerve of the new leadership of Pakistan, on the other hand they want to show that their puppet's act of aggression is a reaction to the “violation** by Pakistan,
The incursion inside the Pakistan territory comes at a time when this nation has left a tragedy behind and is preparing to hold elections. Intimidation by the Soviets, extensive propaganda against Pakistan and physical threats are used to force the new leadership to change its stand on Afghanistan.
The poor performance of the puppet troops in the battlefields and the possibility of the defeat of the regime at the hands of Mujahideen has compelled the Soviets to behave irresponsibly.
The Soviets had miscalculated the strength of the Resistance and were dreaming of increased clashes between the Mujahideen over the areas they were supposed to evacuate. When the Mujahideen drove the puppet forces from some strategic areas and even liberated some provinces , the civil war which the Soviets were dreaming of did not materialise, and they became worried.
The Soviets are running out of time and as they approach the 15th of February, they are more nervous because they have realised the regime which they promoted in Kabul years ago is facing destruction at the hands of the people of Afghanistan.
To buy time for the regime the Soviets are behind a pretext to breach the Geneva agreement by delaying troops withdrawal and escalating the war against the Mujahideen.
Aerial bombing of Kunduz by the planes flying from the bases inside Soviet territory is a sign which shows that the Soviets will go to the extremes of breaching the Geneva accord to relieve its psychological shock resulting from the victory of the Mujahideen, (Turn to page 6)
THE Prominent Pakistani religious scholar. Maw I ana Abdul Hag, died in Peshawar at the age of 77,
He was the founder of Darul-Ul(wmi-Haqqaai in which a large number of students, including Afghans studied.
The Maw 1 ana was a strong supporter of Jehad In Afghanistan. He was also at the forefront of the campaign of the Ulema to implement Sharia law in Pakistan.
Besides being a scholar he was also a popular politician elected to the National Assembly of Pakistan.
His demise after the tragic death of President Zia-ul-Haq in an air crash is a loss for the Mujahideen.
The Maw I ana has a lot of admirers from the Mujahideen and Afghanistan Ulema. Prof. Rabbani paid a visit to the house of the Maw 1 ana to condole with the grieved family. □
Thousands of Afghan Kids brain-washed in USSR
THE Daisy Newspaper of the regime reported in its July the ?th Issue that the Kabul regime is sending 3,380 young children to the Soviet Union this year for recreation.
The daily added that every year thousands of children are sent to Soviet Central Asia for schooling and entertainment.
It further wrote that 8,900 children have been sent in the past seven years. 0