Vol 6, No 4
February 15,1990
US Secretary of State fails to sell his peace plan to Soviet leaders
James Baker's conciliatory peace formula for Afghanistan could not persuade the Soviet Union's leaders to compromise on the issue. It made Afghans worry about US commitment in support of their cause.
The US Secretary of State went to Moscow on February 7 with a new
Donors’ attitude worries PVOs
Representatives of relief organizations stressed the need for the continuation of humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people.
They expressed their views in a three-day conference held in New York on February 9 on the theme, Afghanistan: changing relations with the PVOs'. It was sponsored by the Afghanistan Relief Committee, a New York-balsed support organization.
In addition to the member of the private voluntary organizations (PVOs) representatives of the UN, Red Cross, Pakistan Government and Afghan Interim Government also participated.
Speakers in the conference expressed their concern over the reduction of humanitarian assistance by the donor countries for the war-affected Afghans. They also were concerned about shortages of food in some parts of Afghanistan.
They complained about the lack of co-ordination between UN agencies, USAID, the Afghan Interim government and PVOs.
PVOs have played a key r;ole in providing assistance for the refugees and war-affected Afghans inside Afghanistan.
Recent reports show that North and North-West of Afghanistan are facing shortages of food supplies.
After the Soviet troops withdrawal the donor countries have shown less interest to support the needy Afghans while the war has continued and people still suffer.
peace proposal to find a solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
The US made a concession to Moscow by dropping its demand for the removal of Najibullah from power before any negotiations for peace could start. According to the new American proposal, negotiations could start while Najib is still in power but he should leave in the later stages of the peace process.
According to the plan, die Mujahideen will hold an election for a truly representative Shoora (council). In the second phase the good "Muslims" in Kabul will be introduced to the Shoora and then a transitional administration, created by the council will take power and prepare the ground for a permanent set up.
According to the plan somewhere between the second and third phases Najib should step down.
Moscow did not accept the idea and repeated its earlier position of: holding negotiations between the opposition and Naji; mutual cutting of arms to both sides and holding general elections under yN auspices.
The new American formula was evolved after US Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs made a trip to Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and India during which the Afghanistan problem was discussed.
* Mr. ! Kimmitt met with the Mujahideen leaders and discussed with them ways of ending the war in Afghanistan.
American officials say that they discussed the new proposal with Mujahideen leaders. But in the absence any preliminary meetings of US officials with the Mujahidefn leaders to discuss such an important issue, two hours, of talks (including lunch) might not have given the Mujahideen leaders a full insight into the nature of the.pro-posal which concerned the future of their country.- .
The Geneva accords were, discussed under similar circumstances.
The Mujahideen were given repeated assurances for a just deal but it was signed against their wishes.
Not only Afghans, but their supporters in the US Congress have shown concern about the shift of US Afghan policy. Eight Senators informed Baker of their concern when he was visiting Moscow. They warned the US administration against any deal which could give any rule, transitional or permanent, to Najibullah in the future political life of Afghans.
Some observers attribute the inflexible attitude of Moscow to the inability of the resistance to defeat the Kabul regime and think that Baker's plan came at a time when the resistance was not in a strong military position. It was easy for the Soviets to ignore it.
A major problem in any negotiated settlement is lack of coordination between the supporters of the resistance. Tension between Iran and Saudi Arabia and Iran and the USA can jeopardize efforts to bring unity between the Peshawar-based and Iran-based Mujahideen parties. Lack of coordina turn between the supporters of the Afghan resistance will be exploited by the Soviets.
. The shift in American attention from Afghanistan to other issues could also prove fatal. Dealing with a compli cated issue through newly appointed diplomats and a strong feeling for early disengagement from what it is called the "Afghanistan mess" could lead to more undesirable compromises which will not be acceptable to the Afghan people.
If the US and other Mujahideen supporters stick to their stated policy of supporting the genuine right of self-determination for the Afghan people, in letter and spirit, the Afghans do not have any reason to worry too much But very often these terms are inter preted differently by different people to fit their immediate situations. This is the point which worries, the Mujahideen the most.