Vol 7, No 10
May 15,1991
UN intensifies peace efforts
Benon Sevan, the UN Secretary General's personal representative, has recently held talks in Islamabad, Peshawar, Tehran, Kabul and Moscow in an effort to find a formula for the political solution to the of Afghan issue.
In Islamabad, he met with Pakistani officials and in Peshawar with Mujahideen leaders, including Prof. Rabbani.
In Teheran, he talked to representatives of Wahdat party and Iranian officials. He met with Najib in Kabul. Najib complained about the alleged 'involvement of Pakistan in fighting for control of Khost .
Prof. Rabbani informed Sevan about aerial bombing of Qaysar District, Faryab Province, by planes flying from Soviet Union. He asked him to discourage the Moscow from interference in the affairs of Afghanistan.
Pakistan says it will intensify efforts to find a political solution to the Afghan problem. Delegations will visit Iran, Saudi Arabia, USA, Soviet Union and China to discuss the issue with the leaders of these countries. Pakistan does not recognize Kabul regime and will not establish direct contact with Najib.
Press reports talk about a secret meeting between representative of regime with Pakistan and Hezb Islami of-, ficials in Geneva at the end of Holy month of Ramadhan. Pakistan has denied the report. Hezb has denied holding of any meeting with Kabul regime. Hezb Islami officials had met with regime's men in Baghdad two years ago.
Some months ago, media reported holding of a meeting between Najib and Pir Gailani in Geneva, but Gailani does not admit it publicly.
While the press talk about new initiatives to find a political solution to the Afghan problem, the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime have stuck to> their previous positions. The Mujahideen reject any deal with the Kabul regime and the Kabul proposes power-sharing with the Mujahideen.
Kabul regime wins Logar media war
After a military defeat in Khost, the Kabul regime scored a propaganda victory when it captured Waghjan Gorge in Logar on April 25.
Waghjan Gorge, through which Kabul-Gardiz road passes, is located about 50 kilometers south of Kabul. By controlling this gorge, the Mujahideen had cut the road.
The Kabul regime launched attack on Waghjan Gorge on April 18. Ground attack was launched from all directions after several days of bombardment of the area with artillery, rockets and from the air. The Mujahideen were forced to retreat.
The Kabul regime has claimed achieving a major military victory by capturing the headquarters of Lashkar-i-Easar, a military formation of Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar group). It claimed killing and wounding of more than 800 Mujahideen and seizing a large number of weapons and ammunition.
Regime also claimed capturing of two Pakistani nationals fighting along the Mujahideen. The Kabul TV, however, failed to present evidence of regime's claims. It showed the bodies of three people, two prisoners and some arms and ammunition.
The casualties of the Mujahideen are estimated more than 100 men.
The role of two militia groups , Rashid Dostum and Sayyed Kayan, has been significant in Logar operation. Hie two militia leaders were promoted to higher military ranks. Several hundreds regime soldiers and officers were promoted or were given medals and cash awards for their role in Logar operation. Najib wanted to raise the morale of its troops which was badly damaged by the fall of Khost garrison.
The strategy of the Kabul regime in Logar operation was to push the Mujahideen away from Kabul, thus minimizing the chances of their attack on Kabul, and to open the road to Gardiz which is a target of Mujahideen's concerted attacks after
the fall of Khost. If the road is kept open, regime can take supplies and reinforcement to Gardiz very easily. In addition to its military objectives regime needed a symbolic victory to raise the moral of its troops after its defeat in Khost and improve its international image.
While the regime has achieved an initial success, it is too early to conclude that it has gained all its objectives. The. Mujahideen will definitely hit back. With the escalation of fighting in other parts of Afghanistan, Kabul will not have enough men to consolidate the ground it has gained in Logar.
The Mujahideen in Logar had faced problems due to flooding Logar river which restricted their movement and decreased their ability to move supplies and'men from one side to the other. There are also reports of some sort of uneasy feelings between the local Mujahideen belonging to other parties and Lashkar-i-Easar. The local Mujahideen resented presence of Lashkar-i-Easar because it was not a local organization which received a lot of military and financial assistance while the local Mujahideen felt that they were let down. This feeling prevented close cooperation between the Mujahideen belonging to other parties and Lashkar-i-Easar. The Mujahideen belonging to other parties also resented publicity made by Hezb from joint operations in the past The Kabul regime was aware of these problems and might have exploited to its advantage in the attack on Waghjan.
The level of fighting in other parts of Afghanistan shows an increase. The Kabul regime continue to bomb Kunar, Ningarhar, Herat, Kandahar, Paktia, Ghazni and Badakhshan. In the face of increased attacks in Paktia and Kunar, the UN has withdrawn its officials from these two provinces. The Mujahideen in Herat repulsed a regime offensive in Guzara District inflicting heavy losses on the Kabul forces.