AFGHANews Vol7, No 10, May 15,1991, page-©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Abdul Aziz
Abdul Aziz, the commander of the fifth Mobile Unit of the Supervisory Council, played a major role in capturing Kuran-o-Munjan garrison in 1987- Kuran garrison was protected by many security posts, of which Shakh Post was the most important. Located on a steep hill overlooking the area, the post was defended by 64 soldiers and officers equipped with light 1 and heavy weapons.
In a sand-table briefing, Ahmad Shah Masood stressed die importance of capturing the post. He said it was key to capturing the Kuran garrison. If the post were not captured, the Mujahideen who had to attack the garrison itself would have been killed or captured because they would have had no way to retreat.
Aziz fully realized the risky mission to which he was assigned. He led about 80 men, divided into active and reserve groups, in die attack. When the attack started the defenders of the post resisted stoutly. Matters became worse when a recoilless rifle assigned to bombard the post from an elevated position overhead failed to reach its position on time. Eight Mujahideen were killed and many others injured.
Aziz, who is known for his careful approach, became worried about the casualties. He and afeW Mujahideen entered the post and engaged the enemy in close fighting. After two hours of bloody hand-to-hand fighting, the post was captured. It paved the way for the fall of the garrison.
Aziz still feels the bitterness of .Kuran campaign and describes it as the most difficult job ever he was assigned to, although earlier he had participated in attacks on Farkhar and Kalafgan garrisons. Aziz and his unit attended several training courses each time a major operation ended.
His unit was famous for courage, piety and obedience. His Mujahideen did not smoke cigarettes and read the Holy Quran regularly.
Aziz's village, Qabizan, was a center of communist activity before the Jehad. Dastagir Panjshiri, a politburo member of the communist party, and Ahmad, the district secretary of the party, hailed from this village. Ahmad was such a powerful man that he could execute suspects without informing his superiors. Ahmad was known among his opponents as "the Barber" because his father was a barber. For Aziz to belong to this village was a drawback because the Mujahideen suspected volunteers from this village of being infiltrators.*
Aziz was bom 30 years ago. His father, Rahim Dad, was a farmer. He is married and has one child.
He learned the basics of Islam in the mosque school of his village and at the age of seven became a student of Rukha School.
He could not pay enough attention to his studies because he helped his father at daily chores. He left school in seventh grade and went to Khanabad, Kunduz, to

Commander Abdul Aziz
work in his brother's auto mechanic shop.
hi 1979 the Mujahideen rose against Taraki's communist regime and liberated Panjshir. After two months they retreated to the upper part of die valley. After the Mujahideen retreat, Aziz returned from Kunduz to Panjshir and found that his former classmates in the 11th class were politically active in support of the Kabulregime.. They asked him to join the Communist Youth Organization in return to promotion without examination to the 11 class of school. Aziz refused their offer by making excuses so that they were not offended.
Aziz watched the first Soviet's offensive of the valley in April 1980. The area in which he lived was controlled by the regime.
After the Soviet troops' retreat, the Mujahideen influence spread quickly . Almost all the villages in Rukha came under control of the Mujahideen and the regime forces were confined to their garrison. After Abdul Wasai became the Mujahideen commander in Rukha, he turned them into a powerful force. Wasai, an outstanding man, possessed all the qualities of good guerilla leader. Aziz volunteered to become a Mujahid in the spring of 1980.
He belonged to one of the first volunteer groups who formed the first mobile unit in Panjshir, commanded by Panah.
At the end of 1980 fighting around the regime garrison in Rukha intensified. Abdul Wasai was martyred and Panah's group was assigned to assist the local Mujahideen. In a clash with regime forces 43 enemy troops were captured or killed. The Mujiahideen lost four men. Abdul Aziz participated in this fighting.
After Panah became the commander of Chemal Wardah in Rukha, his unit was assigned outside the Panjshir Valley, hi each mission the unit was led by one of the valley's experienced commanders. Later, Gulzar Khan was appointed the commander of this first mobile unit.
As the time passed, new mobile units were formed and the Mujahideen with bat-
tlefield experience became their commanders. Aziz became the commander of the 5th Mobile Unit when it was formed in 1983.
The unit then completed its three months of training in Panjshir during the cease-fire between the Mujahideen and the Soviet forces. The unit was instructed by Farhatullah from Kabul. He had graduated from the Jami'at Military Academy and was a man of many fine qualities. He knew the art of war well and treated his students kindly. He was martyred in action and will be remembered for a long time by the people whom he worked.
Aziz's mobile unit was composed of 33 Mujahideen, each divided into three groups of ten. Each group was equipped with nine Kalashnikov assault rifles and One anti-tank rocket launcher. The unit also had one 7.62 mm PK machinegun to provide covering fire.
Before the seventh Panjshir offensive was launched in the spring of 1984, several Mujahideen units from Panjshir were sent to Shamali, a plateau north of Kabul, to attack enemy convoys before they entered die valley. Aziz's unit was one of them.
His unit launched three attacks on regime and Soviet convoys in the Noh Pula area of Qarabagh District, about 35 kilometers from Kabul. The attacks, launched with help of local Jami’at groups headed by Haji Shokoor, inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. Aziz's unit suffered no casualties.
After spending two months in Shamali the unit returned to Panjshir. Fighting against Soviet and regime forces continued all over the valley. The Mujahideen brought heavy pressure on Pushgoor, the uppermost enemy garrison, which was manned by regime troops.
Aziz captured a strategic post defending Pushgoor and took 120 enemy soldiers prisoner.
Abdul Aziz is respected among Mujahideen for fighting in such a way as to minimize losses in his unit. In this regard he explains, '1 study the target closely and consult with my deputy and the three group commanders about the best tactic to be used. Experience helps, and my Mujahideen are obedient. This is why Almighty God gives us the victory without casualties".
After several months of fighting around Pushgoor his unit was given a two-month leave. Pushgoor garrison was captured in 1985, when his unit was still on leave. Aziz's unit then took part in fighting launched by the Soviets to eliminate the 400 regime prisoners captured there. Most of the 400 prisoners died as a result of the fighting, which continued for a week. The Soviets wanted dead those who had failed. The attack Was launched while negotiations for the exchange of prisoners were still in progress.
After that, Aziz's unit went to Salang to attack enemy supply lines. Commander Panah was in charge of operations in