Vol 8, No 20	October	15,1992
Hal-o-Aqd Council to be convened soon
Defense Ministry being Iskmized
More than 30 prominent Mujahideen commanders and officers have been appointed to key posts in the Defense Ministry, as the first step towards forming a national and Islamic-army in Afghanistan.
The appointment of two deputy defense ministers, the chief of the army staff and the commander of the Kabul gar-
>n from 'iruoiig the iViajahideen is °.u effort to restore the people's confidence in the arpiy.
_ According to a statement of the Defense Ministry, the social structure of Afghanistan' has been taken into account in the new appointments. ,
- Sayyed Hassan from Hezb Wahdat and Gulzarak from Ittihad of Prof. Sayyaf have been appointed deputy defense ministers.	;
Abdur Rahim Wardak from Pir Gailani’s party was appointed chief of the army staff, and Mohammad Younus Qanuni from "Jami'at was made chief of army political affairs.
Mir Anjamuddin was appointed chief of the air force, and Abdur Rauf Safi became commander of the Kabul garrison.
The Defense Ministry has asked armed Mujahideen to join the new Islamic Army voluntarily. The recruits will serve in the army at least for one year and will be given military training.
. The volunteers receive monthly pay. of Afs. 15,000 and an allowance of 56 kilogram of wheat. If a soldier is killed or maimed while performing his duty, his family will be compensated. ■
A considerable number .of Mujahideen have joined the army in response to the request by the Defense Ministry.
Preparations to convene the	Shurari-Hal-o-Aqd
(Council of Resolution and Settlement), a representative assembly , are underway, but due to the rocket attacks by Hezb this assembly will not be held by October 28 as originally planned.
According to the Peshawar Accord, a Shura (assembly) was to be held during the four months of President Rabbani’s term of office to choose an interim government for a period of 18 months. That interim setup is to prepare a national constitution and hold general elections.
The first session of the Shura’s preparatory commission was held on September 29 under its chairman Sayyed Noorullah Emad. . Each Mujahideen party has introduced two representatives onto the commission, as has Hikmatyar's Hezb Islami. The Leadership Council has introduced some experts as its members.
The Leadership, Council decided that the election of representatives should take place based on population. According to the formula, each district and sub-district will send two representatives to the assembly. If the number of population of a district or sub-district is more than 30,000, each extra 18,000 people will send an additional member to the Shura. The population figures will be based on a UN survey published in 1990.
The Leadership Council will appoint 15 percent of the members of the' Shura, and 5 percent will be appointed by the head of the Leadership Council. This will allow the participation of experts and some prominent Afghan personalities living abroad.
The Islamic State has asked the UN and OIC to extend financial assistance to defray the cost of holding the Shura, and to send their representatives to supervise its proceedings.
Since the Shura could not be held on time, the Leadership Council has ex-
tended the presidency of Prof. Rabbani for forty-five days. If The Shura still can't be convened within that time, the Leadership Council must choose another interim president to run the country until the Shura is convened.
Hezb's attack on Kabul and its aftermath occupied a month and a half of Rabbani's term. The activities of provincial peace delegations and the absence of many leaders from Kabul also slowed the process.
Hikmatyar, Yunus Khalis, Mawlawi Nabi and Prof. Sayyaf met near Kabul to evolve an election strategy. They, or their representatives, had held several earlier meetings, either in Pakistan or in the eastern provinces of Afghanistan.
Dostum's secret trip to Pakistan was also related to the coming election. Unconfirmed reports Say that he was encouraged by his hosts to support Mawlawi Nabi to become president for the next 18-month interim period.
The withdrawal of northern forces from Kabul did not begin on time due to technical problems, but proceeded throughout October.
The- initial delay prompted Hikmatyar to renew his threats of war. This, along with Hezb's attack on Herat, worried the people of Kabul.
The government remains sincerely committed to holding elections and implementing the ceasefire terms. The ceasefire agreement asks both the government and Hezb to do specific things. The withdrawal of General. Dostum's 53rd Division was be matched by the withdrawal of Hezb forces from south of Kabul (it hasn’t been). Hikmatyar was to expel Khalqi officers and communist militiamen from Hezb ranks (he hasn't).
Defense Minster Ahmad Shah Masood visited Takhar in October to organize the affairs of the Supervisory Council in Badakhshan, Takhar, Baghlan and Kunduz provinces - a preparatory step for holding elections.