ATSHAHevs Vol 4, So 14, July 15,1988, Page 4
AFGHANews
FO Box 264, Pesfeewe^Pakistaa. Tel: 41381
i
Editorial
UN Mediator resumes mission for forming broad-based government
Mr, Corctoveg, the UN special envoy on
Afghanistan, has resumed his activities to pave
the way for forming a broad-based
government in Afghanistan, bui it is believed
that his mission has little chance of success.
Mr. Cordovez who acted as tine personal representative of the UN General Secretary was the architect of the Geneva accords signed on March H,
The accord was signed fey the government of Pakistan and the puppet regime in Kabul and guaranteed by the two superpowers of the US and the USSR,
This accord gave Mr. Cordovas the mission to continue his efforts for forming a broad-based government in Afghanistan and his present trip to the area, is based on that recommendation.
Although MrXordovea says that he does not have any specific proposals for finding a solution to the problem, he has outlined his personal way of thinking in an article published in the Washington Post and during his trip he repeated some of the mam points of his thinking,
Cordovez is thinking of holding a toya jifga "grand assembly" inside Afghanistan and wants to involve some people whom he call independent Afghans1, an indirect reference to the ex-king and people similar to him.
Holding the assembly inside Afghanistan, according to Mr. Cordovas, gives is legitimacy which nobody can challenge.
Mr. Cor doves has indicated that the Soviets are concerned about the stability of the regime in Kabul and possibly have given support lor his line of thinking.
The Mujahideen see little chance of progress in forming a broad-based government based on the efforts of Mr. Cordovez. The Resistance is not ready to enter any kind of deal with the Communist regime in Kabul and reaching an agreement to form a representative assembly from both sides seems impractical.
More than that the regime is not ready to dismantle its army and secret police. Any thing less than that will be accepting the so-called National Reconciliation of the regime which has been rejected by the Mujahideen.
Cord oven's assessment that Afghans will be forced t© -compromise after signing the Geneva accords has turned out to be inaccurate and his hopes that this will happen after Augest 15 when half of the Soviet troops have ieft the country does not have a sound basis.
War drops level of farm products
AN agricultural survey carried out by the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan shows that due to the war situation agricultural products in Afghanistan have dropped to one third
of the pre-war level.
A survey of the agricultural conditions in Afghanistan was carried out by tile Swedish Committee during 1987. It was headed by Dr. Asam G-ui, former professor at the agri cultural institution of Kabul university.
The results are based up©a interviews with 11,000 farmers in Afghanistan and among newly arrived refugees in Pakistan.
The survey shows that both yields and area cultivated by specific farmers have declined t© an extent, that an these two counts alone the production compared with 1978 has fallen to 46% in I9S6 and 52% in 1967, It should .however, tee noted that these figures do not take abandoned farms into account; i.e„ all those farms left uncultivated by farmers who became refugees, A rough estimate is consequently that the agricultural production in Afghanistan has fallen to one third of its prewar level.
Furthermore, the use of fertilizer has declined severiy, and although the survey has evidence which is not yet analyzed, it appears that the genetic potential of wheat seed has deteriorated substantially.