flFBHAH NEW© VOL.III, HO.2, 15/1/ 1967 PflGE 9
 The Afghan resistance speaks for more people and controls more Afghan territory than the Kabul regime. Since the Soviet invasion in December 1979, Afghans have voted with their feet against Kabul; a fourth of the country's 16 million inhabitants are now refugees in Pakistan and Iran Although Kabul controls the cities, the insurgents rule most of the countryside. And no less important, despite lopsided U.N. condemning the invasion, the Soviet Union still refuses to fix a reasonable timetable on withdrawing its troops.
 The astrocious human rights record of the Soviet occupiers and their Afghan proxies should also weigh heavily. A devastating report by the human rights commission is being debated this week by the General Assembly. The report documents indiscriminate bombing, torture of prisoners, use of booby-trapped toys to maim children and denial of social and economic rights. It also offers this relevant judgment on the resistance: “It would seem that these opposition movements command the « support of the vast majority of the population".
 Commendably. the U.N. is no longer ingloriously mute concerning human rights outrages by communist regimes. An appropriate way to hold Kabul accountable for its' crimes is to award Afghanistan's U.N. seat to the legitimate resistance claimants. The prospect of a vote on that may powerfully concentrate Soviet attention on ending a barbarous occupation.
 NOTE: AFGHAN NEWS FULLY AGRBES WITH THB CONTENTS OF THE ABOVE ARTICLE.
                                        SOVIET INVASION CONDEMNED
 27 December marked the 7th year of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Afghan Refugees all over the world eipress their disapproval of the invasion by holding demonstrations, meetings and other activities. This year Afghans demonstrated in several world capitals including Islamabad and Delhi.
 Afghan political parties also convened protest meetings in Peshawar Refugees camps. In all the meetings, the participitants denounced the invasion of a peaceful Islamic country and the subsequent killing of its people by Soviets. They expressed their determination to continue their struggle till total freedom of Afghanistan and establishment of and Islamic Republic is achieved.
                                                      •
 Jami'at convened a large meeting on the occasion in Peshawar. The participitants passed resolution in which they asked:
    1- The immediate, total and unconditional withdrawal of Soviet forces from
    Afghanistan
    2- continuation and even intensification of armed struggle against the Soviet
    invaders
    3- Recognition of the Afghan resistance by the U.N. NAM and 01C as the sole representative of the people of Afghanistan.
    4- The need for more humanitarian assistance to the Refugees inside and outside the
    country.
    5- The need for a more effective unity amongst the resistance parties.
    6- The need for extensive work to inform world public about the true situation in Afghanistan and seek their support for the cause