AFGHANews Vol6, No 18 &19 October 1,1990, page ©
From Mujahideen press inside Afghanistan
The latest two issues of Shoora, a fortnightly paper published by the Cultural Committee of the Supervisory Council inside Afghanistan, has many interesting articles. Here is the summery of some of the articles:
Close video salons in Kabul
The Shoora fortnightly, published by the Supervisory Council (SC) in Afghanistan, has published a letter from a reader in Kabul in its 11th issue criticizing the negative effect of video salons on the children in Kabul.
The letter says many video salons have been opened in different parts of the city. They show indecent films replete with sex and violence. Children and young people watch these films without restriction. Video games and films have diverted the attention of young people from study. Children steal money from their parents and others to pay to watch video films.
The letter says the objection of parents did not force the Najib regime to stop the video business. The parents have become disappointed and think that it could be a deliberate policy of the communist regime to mislead young people.
The letters asks the Mujahideen to take action against the dirty films and put a stop to it.
Jehad suffers from Farkhar tragedy
In the ninth issue of Shoora an article is published about the tragedy of Farkhar and its effect on Jehad.
A meeting was held in Taliqan to commemorate the martyrdom of Jami'at Mujahideen and commanders in Tangi-i-Farkhar one year ago.
On July 9,1989 a group of Jami’at commanders were ambushed by Sayyed Jamal’s men. As a result some prominent commanders, like Qazi Islamuddin, Tariq, Mullah Woodod, Dr. Hussain, Mawlawi Ezzatullah and others were brutally martyred.
The paper says SC expected Hezb (Hikmatyar) to take action against the culprits and try them for the coldblooded murder. Not only Hezb fail to take any action, it supported those who were involved.
SC was forced by the families of those killed, local people and council of the Ulama to take action against Jamal and his men.
One moth after the incident the culprits were captured and were handed over to the judicial authorities of the Council. Jamal and three friends were
found guilty and were sentenced to death on December 23.
Hezb took a hostile line after the court decision and even talked about taking revenge. This hostile policy has had a negative effect on Hezb and Jami'at efforts against the regime.
Hezb suffered from its policy in the fifst place. In the past few months some districts and sub-districts along the Soviet border were captured by the enemy without much resistance by Hezb Mujahideen. Out of frustration Hezb allied itself with Khalq faction, defaming itself at home and abroad.
The recent division in the leadership of Hezb is another reaction towards this policy.
Jami'at suffered from these tensions too. SC efforts to launch major attacks against the enemy targets faced problems because of physical opposition by Hezb gfoups or their indirect measures . As a result the Mujahideen suffered and the Kabul regime benefit-ted from it.
The Shoora expressed its readiness to solve the issue between the two parties through negotiations. The efforts of late Dr. Abdullah Ezam, which had the support of Jami'at, were not accepted by Hezb.
SC is ready to discuss these issues with the leadership of Hezb, and solve them so that we can divert our full attention towards defeating the Kabul regime.
Shoora publishes Medical Bulletin
Nida-i-Tabib ( the call of the doctor) is the name of a monthly news bulletin published by the Health Committee of the Supervisory Council.
The paper publishes articles about the activities of the committee and subjects relating to health.
The paper is printed in eight A4 letter size pages and is printed inside the country with a duplication machine.
Saudi, USSR resume diplomatic relations
Saudi Arabia will establish diplomatic ties with the Soviet Union. The diplomatic ties between the two countries were cut in 1938.
The announcement came during the Saudi Foreign Minister's visit to Moscow.
Oppressive measures by the Soviet government against Soviet Muslims and the invasion of Afghanistan had been obstacles in the way of resuming diplomaticties.
The Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and Soviet opposition to the invasion paved the way for closer ties with Moschw to the extent that Saudi Foreign Minister said his country welcomed stationing of Soviet troops in Saudi Arabia.
Militias forced to leave Kabul
The Kabul regime army has ordered tribal militias to leave the city of Kabul.
Many militia groups had opened offices in different parts of the city. The people of Kabul complained that militias were responsible for most of the theft and murder in the city.
Several gun battles between rival militia groups have taken place in the center of the city. In one such recent incident ten people were killed, among them a militia leader from Herat, Daud Rizwan.
The commander of the Kabul garrison gave ten days for militias to leave the city. On September 1st, 130 armed militiamen were arrested for violation of the order.
Najib told BBC that militia forces have behaved in an independent way since they joined the regime.
Militias form the backbone of the regime armed forces. The Kabul regime had given them full freedom in return for fighting against the Mujahideen.1
Militias fight for money and in addition to high salaries, they receive a big sum for every achievement on the battlefield.
j AFGHANews j | readers can 1 ! now reach us ; j through FAX. ! j Our number is:	!
!	(0521)42410	|
9-(efp us puBtish
tPlease send your donations to the fottcrwing account number:
J'EMA'D Account 9fp. 735-37 iHahiS Ban^Ltd.
‘Tehfed ‘Baba, (Peshawar iPakistan