flFGHfii'l NEWS VOL .HI. HO.23, 1/l2/tW,PRGE 5
 national interest not on short-term party rivalries which they dc most rated in connection to the first official visit of the Mujahideen delegation to the U S A.
                                         FROM THE DIARY OF JEHAD
                                                   (PART M)
                                              By Monammad Es’haq
                                        A VISIT TO THE KESHM VALLEY
 1 was advised by Commander Masood to visit Keshm and see the situation by myself. , From Ferkhar to Keshm there arc* many ways but I chose Mashlan Pass
 The side valley which I entered was called Neem Pasta It was a fertile valley. At noon we arrived at the first village, Mirkan, and were received by a respectable old man. He -was the village representative in the people’s council which is formed by the Mujahideen in Keshm to give participation to the local people in the affairs of Jehad.
 My first aim was to meat Aryan poor Lite leader of the Mujahideen in this valley. Aryan poor who was a teacher was jailed by the Communist regime in 1978 but released latter. He was elected by the Mujahideen of Keshm as their leader Under his leadership a good military and civilian administration was sot up which functions smoothly.
 Aryan poor is a staunch defender of unity among the Mujahideen and active member of the Supervisory Council of the North He played a key role in the attack against Keran Garrison                                             -
 When I arrived et the first Mujahideer center (Qarargah), J was told that Aryanpoor had gone to another valley, so 1 decided to continue my journey with other members of
 his administration.
 Keshm is a district of Badakhsban province It is composed of two major valleys and some side valleys jamiai controls the two major valleys and most of the side valleys The valleys are very 'ertile . The people earn their living through farming
                                                   •
 The Soviets and their puppets have a base in the lower part of Keshm but control few villages The Kuaduz-faizabad road passes through the lower part of the valley, The upper partof tbe valley is mountainous but the lower part flat
 Almost all the pre-war populations are still living in Keshm. Keshm has seen some offensives but has not been affected verv much by the war
 An important feature of this valley is the large cumber of schools the Mujahideen have opened there. One can ses groups of children going to school in the morning and coming back at noon, i visited a targe number of boys schools and one girl school. Students were attentive and tbe teacher* interested in their jobs. Besides ordinary schools I also visited some religious schools (Madrasas). Medical facilities are limited. The Mujahideen have paramedics and nurses but not proper doctors The need for doctors is seriously felt.
 The shops m the villages are selling essential commodities No shortages of food was witnessed but the prices were very iufjrt I did not witness any fighting in Keshm but passed through a dozen graveyards where tens of martyred were buried. You could recognize a martyrs grave b> the flags hoisted by his relatives on the grave. Mujahideen from Keshm are getting their war espcrience in common attacks against the enemy garrisons,
 I witnessed a close cooperation between the local people and the Mujahideen. Ulema