RFGHRrt HEWS U0L.1U, HO, 2, S/15riSa8, PfiGE 6
                                                KHOST CAMPAIGN
     Resupplying the Khost garrison ■was neither a major victory for the Soviets nor'a major setback for the Mujahideen.
     The local population s fight against the Soviet superpower has always been a mobile guerrilla war. The Mujahideen resist the enemy by laying mines and. ambushing convoys. The purpose is to inflict maximum losses in men and material, and to keep the casulties of the resistance as low as possible
     With this in mind, the Mujahideen have done a superb job in’the Khost campaign The enemy suffered heavy casualties and their advance was very slow. Mujahideen ■casualties appear to have been very light.
     The enemy tried to make the campaign a major news event The fighting around Khost was shown on Moscow Television and the Soviet foreign ministry briefed newsmen about the situation on several occasions. The Soviets tried to show that the arrival of some of their convoys after several weeks of campaigning was a victory for them and a defeat for the Resistance, in the beginning they wanted to hide their involvement in order to get maximum publicity for their Afghan puppets, but later it became impossible to conceal the role of their troops in the campaign
     The enemy ground forces have reached Khost; but what have they accomplished thereby ?
     Because of the terrain and the strength of the Resistance, the Soviet campaign was a one-time achievement- They are not able to secure the Gardez-Khost road by establishing posts all along it. The road passes through mountains and deep valleys, an
     ideal ground for guerrilla attacks.
     If the enemy strengthen Khost garrison with additional troops, they face the problem of feeding extra moths. Aerial transport is expensive and dangerous. Each ground resupply convoy needs two months of fighting, and suffering heavy casualties, to reach Khost.
     The Khost campaign has not been a major victory for the enemy, and cannot be considered a defeat for the Mujahideen. It is the beginning of further complications for the puppets and the Soviets The Mujahideen will continue to harass the enemy supply routes, and will tighten their siege around Khost again. This is a normal process of guerrilla warfare.
     We suggest is that the Mujahideen capture the enemy garrisons in the countryside, rather than besieging them for years They have the manpower and resources to do the job. A good sign in the area Was the cooperation between different parties, and this will make annihilating the enemy garrisons more easier We hope the Mujahideen in the area will soon begin a new phase of war. the semi-mobile attacks for the purpose of capturing enemy garrisons.
I In Northeastern Afghanistan such a process has already started
                                    JAIL TERM FOR FRENCH JOURNALIST
     Allan Guilin, a French photographer, was tried and given a prison term of 10 years on charges of sspionage.
     Allan was captured by the Communist forces in the North of Afghanistan some months i ago. He was a well-known journalist who has been covering the war since the j beginning of the Soviet invasion