---- AFGHANews Vol 8,' No 24, December 15, 1992, page ^
Clashes designed to disrupt Hal-o-Aqd
From page (1)
believe lhat Pir Gailani, Dostum and Wahdat had reached an understanding (hat Wahdat would launch attacks. Then Dostum forces would intervene under the pretext of restoring law-and-order, and install Gailani as the head of the state. . •
Gailani had earlier announced his intention for the presidency and had indicated that Dostum was backing him. He had also met Mahmood Baryalai, Babrak's brother, to get the support of the Parchamis for his bid for power. Gailani had said that if he came to power, he would give a seat to Dostum in the leadership council.
Everything was planned to coincide with December IS, the day when President Rabbani’s office term came to an end. Several things went wrong for the would-be coup makers.
First, Hezb Wahdat signed the ceasefire agreement after realizing it would only be defeated in the war against the government. Then Hezb Islami, which had promised assistance Jor Wahdat, was warned by some Mujahideen parties not to support Wahdat, or they would face an angry reaction. Prof. Sayyaf, who was critical of the government, was forced to support the government when Wahdat began fighting.
While Mujaddidi, alongside Gailani, was inciting Wahdat to action against the government, Harakat lnqilab of Mohammadi and Hczb Islami of Khalis party expressed support for the government.
While the Dostum forces were preparing for “D-day," an accident prompted their field commanders in Kabul to laurich iheir attack prematurely. They did not have enough men to achieve their objectives. General Dostum was angry at his officers for their untimely show of force.
Pir Gailani, who has insignificant military power in Kabul, was embarrassed by the collapse of the plan. It seems that some of his partymen did not approve his alliance with Dostum and Wahdat. He was forced to announce his opposition to any attack against the government of Prof. Rabbani.
Jami'at forces in Mazar made ready themselves for a showdown with Dostum, and through a press release, declared their support for the Islamic Government.
Dostum's muscle-flexing in Kabul
was reported by Radio Moscow, Radio Teheran, BBC and VOA as a successful coup. They reported that Commander Masood was missing and Prof. Rabbani was besieged. They also reported that the presidential palace and defense ministry were bombed by Dostum planes.
Despite the presence of foreign journalists in Kabul, why did the international news agencies spread such a : lie?
Hezb Wahdat had misled Radio Teheran, while the former communists 1 passed the wrong story to Radio Moscow. The Western media were de- ^ ceived by the UN officials based in Kabul. They passed the disinformation through their fancy satellite phone to I Islamabad, where it was given to news agencies. The UN label stuck on the false report, gave it undeserved credibility.
The Western news agencies ignored the true reports of their corre spondents in Kabul and accepted the wrong story passed by the UN officials. The incident forced an honest foreign journalist based in Kabul to apologize, on Kabul TV and Radio, on behalf of his colleagues, for the harm done to the government and people of Afghanistan by international news agencies.
Why did the UN commit such a mistake, and why was their report taken more seriously than the reports of correspondents present in Kabul?
The Kabul office of UN is run by Afghans. These people had connections with the former regime and have a secular outlook. A government headed in name by Pir Gailani and supported by Dostum would be more acceptable to them than the Islamic government of Prof. Rabbani. The Afghans working for the UN consider themselves part of the issue and cannot remain neutral. This is the reason for their indulgence in spreading rumors against the Islamic government.
In a press conference, Defense Minister Ahmad Shalt Masood said that the main purpose of troublemakers was to disrupt convening of the Hal-o-Aqd meeting. He said no force in the face of the earth could stop the Hal-o-Aqd council. He added that foreign hands were involved in the disturbances, but did not elaborate.
Dostum showed readiness to case tension and pulled out his troops from some of the positions they had captured.
Hindus
destroy
Babri
mosque
The destruction of the I toric Babri Mosque Ayodhya, India, by extrer Hindus on December 6 has gered Muslims all over world.
The Afghan foreign ministry issued a statement condemning destruction of the mosque.
The Babri mosque was built it 16th century. Hindu extremists, claim it rests on the birthplace of god Ram, want to destroy the mo and build a Hindu temple in its plat
The supreme court of India ha fused to sanction the extremists' ] but the central government faile protect the mosque when the mo Hindu activists attacked. Police on for the protection of the mosque r little effort to stop them from des ing it.
The incident provoked a chai violence in India. More than 1 people, most of them Muslims, killed either in clashes with the p or during communal violence. The tral government of India promise rebuild Lite mosque, and also ba six Hindu and Muslim parlies acc of spreading communal hatred. Ja Islami of India was one the blackl panics.
Muslims all over the world pre ed the destruction of the mosqu I Pakistan, thousands of people tot the streets to demonstrate against crime. Angry protesters set fire to cral Hindu temples and attacked t owned by Hindus. Protest rallies also reported from Bangladesh UAE and some other countries.
Destroying a mosque and bui a temple in its place would have gerous consequences for stability peace all over the world. There is single country whose subjects ai followers of one religion. Rebui the Babri mosque is the only way sure Indian Muslims that their mo and shrines are safe. It will help n confidence in the government of that it is able to safeguard the rig its minorities.