AFGHANews Vol 6, No 16, August 15,1990, page ©.
News
From The Battlefields
Badakhshan Province
The Mujahideen of Jami'at Islami captured 20 soldiers and 40 guns When they attacked a regime security post near Faizabad, the provincial capital, on July 26, Hindukush News Agency reported.
Kabul Province
Jami'at commander in Dehsabz District was killed in action on Julay 23. Captain Fateh Mohammad, 34, led 50 armed Mujahideen. He started Jehad after the communist coup of 1978.
Fateh had graduated from the Kabul Military school. He was bom in Tara Khail village, Dehsabz, and has left behind a widow and four children.
Logar Province
The Kabul regime warplanes killed 30 civilians and destroyed many houses in retaliation for a Mujahideen attack on the regime security posts in Babus plane on August 2. The Mujahideen killed eight soldiers and destroyed three trucks.
Herat Province
Mujahideen killed or wounded more than 60 militiamen, destroyed four trucks and seized 45 guns and three tanks in Karukh and Guzara districts and on the Herat-Islam Qala Highway in a series of attacks which began on July 26 and lasted for three days, Commander Ismail Khan reported. The Mujahideen also lost one man.
Abdul Qudus, brother of Sayyed Ahmad, a famous militia commander in Herat , was among those killed in the attack.
Sixteen armed men defected from the regime to the Mujahideen of Jami'at
on July 26.
More than 50 regime militias were killed or wounded when the Mujahideen of Jami’at fired ground-to-ground rockets into the enemy positions in Herat Stadium on July 26, Afzali Front reported.
Badghis Province
About three hundred armed men defected from the regime to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Aab Kamary District on July 30. Abdul Jalil, the district administrator of Aab Kamary, who had established contact with the Mujahideen decided to come to the resistance side with his men and equipment.
Jawzjan Province
Brigadier General Mohammad Sharif has been killed by the Mujahideen, Kabul Radio reported. He was the commander of regime forces in the province. Sharif was an infantry officer and a resident of Jawzjan.
Ghazni Province
Ten regime soldiers were killed or wounded and 3 captured when they attacked the Mujahideen positions near the city of Ghazni on July 19. Two Mujahideen were killed and two were wounded.
In three different attacks against the regime security posts around the city of Ghazni more than 30 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded and one truck was set on fire.
The Mujahideen killed or wounded more than ten enemy soldiers and destroyed one truck when attacking the enemy positions close to the city with heavy weapons on July 23.
The Mujahideen killed 3 enemy
soldiers and wounded five when they attacked their post around the city on July 25.
The Mujahideen killed seven soldiers and wounded six when they attacked the security post on July 26.
Faryab Province
A regime truck carrying soldiers was destroyed by a landmine planted by the Mujahideen East of Maimana, the provincial capital, on July 29, Hindukush News Agency reported. All the occupant of the trucks were'killed The Mujahideen under Sayyed Allauddin had earlier engaged in severe fighting with regime forces over control of a strategic hill.
Masood supports Commanders Shura
Commander Masood has decided to discuss the possibility of participation of the Supervisory Council in the coming Commanders Meeting. In the two previous meetings the Supervisory Council did not participate. There is also a strong possibility that Commander Ismail Khan of Herat will send his representatives in the coming Commanders Meeting which will be held somewhere inside Afghanistan. Masood and Ismail Khan's support to the commanders meeting will give it extra importance^
AFGHANews has learned that Masood will stress the need for participation of all commanders, including those of the Iran-based Wahdat Party, and the need to avoid confrontation with the AIG and other resistance organizations.
Paktia Commander dies in hospital
Commander Mohammad Ismael, 28, died in hospital on July 31. Ismael was the younger brother of commander Jallaluddin Haqqani, the famous Mujahideen commander in Paktia.
Ismael was the Mujahideen commander in Sato Kan daw between Khost and Gardiz. He was injured in fighting with a regime convoy going from Gardiz, the provincial capital, to Zurmat. He was brought to Pakistan for treatment
His funeral service was held on August 1, in the border town of Miran Shah. Maulawi Youniis Khalis and Prof. Sayyaf attended the service.