AFGHANews Vol7, No 15, August 1,1991, page
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Raees Abdul Wahid
Raees Abdul Wahid is Jami'at commander in Helmand who leads more than 5000 Mujahideen in Helmand and its neighboring provinces. He has been very active against the Soviets and the Kabul regime and has taken part in many battles in Helmand, Farah,
Kandahar and Ghore Province.
Mawlawi Abdul Wahid started Jehad after the communist coup of 1978. His first victory was the liberation of Baghran District from ebntrol of the communist regime. In February of 1979, he led a force of about 800 Mujahideen, equipped with shotguns and swords, against the relatively well-equipped communist troops. The enemy was defeated after three days of fighting. Twelve regime soldiers were killed and the rest captured. Soldiers were set free but the communists officers were executed. The Mujahideen captured 450 shotguns, three machine-guns, 15 Kalashnikov rifles, three sPSh pistols and some ammunition. Five Mujahideen were martyred in the operation. This was a good start for Mawlawi Abdul Wahid.
After this victory, the Mujahideen chose him as their leader (Raees) and he still bears that title. He became affiliated	with Herakat	Inqilab
(Mohammadi group). He, however, developed	differences with	Nasim
Akhundzada, another Harakat commander in Helmand.: In 1986, he joined Jami'at Islami.
Here are some of the major operations in which Raees Abdul Wahid’s men have played a major role:
In 1980, he and 2,500 of his men took part in the operation for the liberation of Musa Qala District along with Nasim Akhundzada. More than 600 rifles were captured form the enemy. All the captured weapons were given to Nasim Akhundzada to strengthen his position in the newly liberated district which was Akhundzada's home town.
In 1983, he attacked the enemy garrison in Toor Tank of Lashkargah. Fighting continued for 13 days during which five enemy tanks and one ammunition dump was destroyed. The Mujahideen lost five men. Facing shortages of drinking water and ammunition, the Mujahideen retreated.
In 1985, the Red Army launched an offensive to capture Musa Qala District. The center of Hezb Islami in
Tanba was captured by the enemy. All Mujahideen left Musa Qala.
The Mujahideen of Raees Abdul Wahid and Nasim Akhundzada launched a counter attack against the Red Army. After 15 days of fighting, the Soviets left the area. The enemy lost 25 tanks and armored cares and scores of Soviet soldiers were killed and wounded.
Forty two Mujahideen were killed and many were wounded. Due to lack of air defense system, Soviet helicopters inflicted most of the casualties.
Raees took an active part In the liberation of Treen Root, the provincial capital of Uruzgan, by sending 500 of his Mujahideen. He also has bases in Delaram of Farah, Grishk, Lashkargah, Kandahar and Ghore.
Abdul Wahid is famous for his personal courage and desire to implement Sharia (Islamic law) in the areas he controls. Travellers passing the area appreciate his achievements in providing security for the people.
In some remote areas of Helmand, bandits used to rob people from their properties since the time of former king and no government could solve this problem. Abdul Wahid captured the bandits and by establishing permanent posts along these roads, made them safe for travellers at day and night. Being an Islamic .scholar, Abdul Wahid has paid attention to opening madra-sas (religious schools). He has established 40 madrasas, 10 of which are boarding schools. He provides financial assistance for the schools.
He has built a hospital and five clinics in different parts of Helmand with the help of some relief organizations.
Abdul Wahid was bom 35 years ago in Laji, a village in Baghran District. His father, Mawlawi Abdul Man an, was teaching in a madras. His father owned enough farm-land to support his family.
Abdul Wahid began his education in his home and later moved to Kandahar to continue his studies. He graduated from Deh Khwaja Madrasa in Kandahar before the April coup.
He had converted a Soviet prisoner to Islam. The prisoner was martyred some months ago in a mine explosion.
Raees Abdul Wahid is married and has two sons and one daughter. His eldest son,12, is a student of a madrasa. ‘
[claim that a special Afghan | Mujahideen force had been deployed near the line <rf control in the Pbonchl WRajauri sectors of KasimUr,
Inter-Services Public Relations i(ISPR), the information wing of Pakistan's aimed forces; said the re-
tkn campaign to "mislead world [opinion about the present indepen-j
I
| According to figures made avail-1 able by the Frontier police, as many] as 290 people were killed and llBOl (were wounded in the'374 bomb ex-1 plosions in NWFP between 1979 to 1990. It caused property losses worth R$. 34,070,051 (a little more than [one million US Dollar). The highest! Innmber of blasts#), was recorded ml 198?, followed by 71 in 1988, and 50 Jin 1989. The number of explosions! decreased to 34 in 1990. The number of blasts recorded in 1991 was 12.1 These blasts were the worit^^HACM [and KGB agents.	5m
| The Mvyatrideeo captwed 'jamnj IkHAD agents who intended to carry lout sabotage: activities in Paktia Province, MID1A reported. [
I TheBIHHHHHIi
them ll communication sets, seven
five million Afghan! in cash. They;
Prof. Rabbni met with Robert Oakley,	U>	Pakistan
in the Pofilical Offipe of Jami'at on July 17. Situation m Afghanistan and prospects Tor a political solution the
Ministry of Pakistan described as a : report § • • that the I
Conference (OlC) had invited I Najihallali’s representative to the! forthcoming ministerial meeting of the OIC in Istanbul. The spokesman st^i|that the Afghan InteriH fkimrnmeot (Ald| representi] [Afghanistan on the QIC and PtoCl Is expected to]