AFGHAN
ACKU
NAM'S
                 A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI’AT 1SLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                            Post Office Box No. 264, Peshawar- Pakistan.
                                 Vol. II, No. 21. 1/11/1986.
                                  UNESCO AWARD FOR THE PUPPETS
 The Kabul New Times announced on Sep. If that the Afghan charge (Puppet representative) In Paris recleved an award from UNESCO Oeneral ’ Director for progress mode In a literacy program.
 This decision of UNESCO It totally unjust and based on complete Ignorance.
 Education has foced serious problems before and after the Invasion. The problem started just after the so-called Sour Revolution (the April Communist coup). Immediately after the coup, the communists turned schools into propaganda centers. They appointed teachers to moke census and carry out the regimes political work programs. Students uiere divided Into two groups; the party members or the revolutionaries and other who were suspected and watched. As the tension Increased between the people and the communist regime they distributed arms to the teachers and students who were party members. Several communist students attended the classes with the PPSH machhieguns. The peaceful atmosphere of education Intltutlons gave way to tension. Students were given the job for spying on the villagers , searching the buses and houses , patroling the passes and roods and protecting government property.
 Educational activities were limited to polittcol marches and communist sbngs. Normal educational activities were branded reactionary and out of dote.
 When the resistance started fighting against the regime, schools turned lilto fortresses from which the regime defended Itself against the popular uprising. After the Soviet Invasion the situation become worse. The country side was liberated but was not quite safe for normal educational activities. For seven years educational activities have been ate standstill.
 In the cities under the control of the regime, although some schools were kept open, the number of the student decreased. Many joined the resistance; became refugees, or under severe economic difficulties
O F