the president, due to the policies of the previous regime Bakhtar Agency was not trusted worldwide.
President Rabbani said that the former regime used the agency as means to tell lies and prevent reporting of the true situation. When the people of an area launched an attack against the communist regime, for example, it was reported that the people of that specific area held a meeting in support of the regime, he added.
He warned the reporters of extremism in reporting because exaggeration would discredit the reporters and the agency they work for.
In socialist countries, he said, propaganda replaced reporting and in most cases the people and rulers began to be influenced by this propaganda.
For example, he said, before the 1967 Arab-Israel war Egyptian media boasted about the strength of that country's army and described the enemy forces as weak. When the war started the Egyptian army was defeated and its people who had believed the lies of their government were stunned.
"In the countries where the people are provided with facts, people realize the limitatiohsof their government and adjust their expectations to reality,” he said.
President Rabbani said that the interests of the country might dictate
i----------------------------------------------------------
For subscription to AFGHAN ews apply to:
Shah Mohammad Book Co. Charah-i-Sadarat P.O.Box 1328 Kabul- Afghanistan Telephone: 25886
SUBSCRIPTION RATE Home: 250 Afs. per copy; Students 100 Afs.
'Yearly Afs. 5000; Students 2400 Afs. Abroad: $ 2 per copy (including mailing cost) Yearly $ 50
IIV gwu 11 ■ pwpiv WIIV Villi JIISI IV1I Ull
truth and there was no good in leaders who refused to hear the truth.
The President said that reporting should become subordinate to political objectives. If that happens, the reporters loose their credibility and fail to correct mistakes.
He said that the only thing to which a journalist in an Islamic government must commit himself is loyalty to Islam and the country. Telling the truth is part of that loyalty, he added.
He said that Afghan journalists should try,to earn worldwide credibility because its absence forces people to turn to foreign news agencies, *•
Prof. Rabbani said the foreign news agencies, despite their worldwide reputation, in many cases fail to present a true picture of the situation in Afghanistan.
He said although the country was facing a crisis due to 14 years of war, the situation was under control. He said rumors were being spread against the Islamic government and thai the situation was being described as worse than it was.
Due in part to biased reporting, foreign countries have refused to give assistance for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. "Our journalists should try to combat these destructive rumors by telling the truth," Rabbani said.
from all over the country to join the government’s central command and impose law and order. After some sLiff battles, Masood shook hands with Hikmalyar at the end of May over a deal to cease lighting and work lor a lasting peace. However, last week's (July 4th) rocket barrage on Kabul shattered the peace and dashed hopes of an enduring compromise.
Nobody is under any illusion that Afghanistan's troubles are now over Despite the. heady talk of elections, ol encouraging the refugees to return ami of the need to rebuild, Afghanistan to day is a shell-shocked, bankrupt coun try. For Masood, his task now will be to prove that he is not just a man ol war, but also a man of peace.
From page (2)
this period prepared him for his key future role in the area.
Prior to the famous seventh Soviet offensive in Panjshcr in 1984, arms, ammunition and other equipments stationed in the valley were transferred to the North so that they would not fall into enemy hands. Wheji the initial phase of the attack passed, Masood and his Mujahideen returned to Panjshcr.
They needed food, arms and ammunition, and- Bismillah successfully organized the dispatch of supplies to the valley from Baghlan and Takhar provinces.
He also undertook the job of collecting food and distributing it among the Panjshcri refugees in the north. Commanders from Kunduz, Takhar and Baghlan contributed generously in providing assistance to the refugees, helping them to stay on in Afghanistan rather than flee the country.
Today Bismillah is married and has three children.