AFGHANews Vol 6, No 16, August 15,1990, page ©
‘Wisdom of*
t sages
Just ruler needs no army
One of the kings of Persia is said to have been tyrannical and violent, oppressing and robbing his people. The people were finally forced to flee to neighboring courntries beyond his reach.
As he had fewer subjects to tax, his treasury was soon exh-hausted, and it was not long before powerful enemies rose up against him.
If you want help in your days of hardship do not forget to be generous in your days of prosperity. If you don't look after your servants they will leave you. Be kind then even strangers will come and be your servant.
One day they were reading the Shahnameh to the king. When they reached the story of the end of the kingdom of Zuhak, and the reign of Feridoon, the vizier asked the king: "Since Feridoon had neither money, nor land , nor troops, how did he get hold of the kingdom ?"
The king replied:"As you heard the people joined him and with their help he won the kingdom ." The vizier commented: "Since a kingdom is built on
the backs of the people, why do you drive so many of them into exile? Do you not want to rule?'
You had better treat the army well few that is the base of your power.
The king asked: "How should I gather subjects and troops?" The vizier replied:" The king should be just and available to petitioners and merciful so his subjects enjoy peace under his rule. But you are neither just nor merciful."
A tyrant cannot be a true ruler as a wolf cannot be a shepherd. The tyrant undermines his own rule.
The king took offence and had the vizier led off in chains to prison.
A little after this the king’s cousins revolted against him claiming the king dom as their own.
Many people who had fled from the tyrany of the king now joined the revolt. The king was defeated and his cousins took power.
Whoever deals harshly with the poor will find powerful enemies in his day of need. Deal kindly with your subordinates and they will defend you from your enemies. A just ruler has nothing to fear from his subjects.
Peace valued by people in war
A king went to sea with his plied:
Persian slave. The boy had never seen the sea before, nor felt the rolling of the ship. He began to cry and groan and tremble. However much they tried to calm him, it was no use. The king began to get in a bad temper. There was a learned doctor on board. He asked the king: "Would you like me to get this boy to keep quiet?" The king said: " That would be extremely kind of you."
The doctor ordered the sailors to throw the boy over board; his head went under and he took several gulps of seawater before they grabbed his hair and dragged him back on to the ship.
The boy crawled into a comer and kept quiet. The king was delighted. " How did you do it?" The doctor re-
Now that he knows what it is like to be drowned, he is very happy to be on board a ship. So also good days are appreciated only after you have been through the bad days."
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
. |jnJjj fluidL jl ^jLu aja
Don't be a thief and you won't fear the king.
Meaning: "The righteous are as bold as a lion."
LuwtA	I j	uJLs
Look after your property, and you won't accuse your neighbor of being a thief.
Meaning: If one takes proper care of his possessions, he won't have to suspect his neighbor of stealing.
j	ijji J*}	tjy
Lala wields the sword while Abdulah eats the results.
Meaning: One beats the bush another catches the hare.
The cat steals the rice and dog comes and eat it. Chinese proverb
Those who would keep camel should also have high gateways.
Meaning: A great ship asks deep waters.
Large fowls will not eat small grains