AFGHAN NEWS VOL III, NO.+, 15/2/ 190? PAGE ©
   ECONOMIC SITU A TI ON:
   The people were poor and since the war started they have become progressively poorer. They have limited fields for cultivation. "Poverty would be the most dangerous menace which will result in horrible starvation if we do not reach them." Haider Khan the representative said.
   MEDICAL SITUATION:
   There are two paramedics trained for three months in Peshawar. They don't have enough medicines "We have brought two more out for medical training", Haider added.
   SOCIAL SITUATION:                                                  ,
   'There is a relatively acceptable system of Judiciary run by Mujahideen. Mujahideen also introduced a better war administration than two years ago." About 250 people have become displaced from the area and just two families from Khahan live in Peshawar. »
                              ISLAMIC CONFERENCE IN KHARTOUM
                                                  »
   A two day international conference was held in Khartoum on 2nd and 3rd Feb The conference was inaugurated by Sayyid Sadiq Al-Mahdi. the prime minister of Sudan discussed the ways and means of "Establishing an Islamic Order" Prof B. Rabbani, leader of JamLat Islami Afghanistan participated in the conference A large number scholars from different parts of the world participated in the conference The conference was organized and financed by Islamic Council which is a London based organization
     LONG LIFE AFGHAN MUJAHIDEEN
                                    HOW MUCH SHOULD THEY SUFFER
    Lebanon is full of problems. Foreign invasion and civil has caused a lot of sufferings for its people The tragedy of Plastinian Refugees is more painful than all. One day they are massacred by the pro-Israeli militias and the next day by pro-Syrian forces Nobody can forget Ihe massacres of refugee camps of Sabra and Shatila.
    Attack on the refugee camps by Ammal militias have gone on for several months now. What is very painful is the great sufferings of civilian population in these refugee camps Recent reports shows that as a result of the siege of the Ammal militia forces refugee camps are facing shortages of food and medicine. According to eyewitness reports the people have started to eat cats and dogs to survive.
    It is a very tragic event to see that this is done at the hand of those who call themselves S  musiims and Arabs. This is done to the people who have been forced out of their
|  homeland by Israelis and suffered too much in life. We hope that this shameful
j  situation will come to an end soon by allowing essential commodities to reach thousands
!  of women, children and old men who are innocent.The silence of the Muslim world
    over this tragic situation is shameful. We are not in a position to help them but our s  sympathy is with them and we will not forget them in our prayers.