AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Cmdr. Ahmad Shah Masood
Ahmad Shah Masood is one the most famous commanders of the Mujahideen whose recent victories, north of the capital, resulted in down fall of Najib and paved the way for the formation of a Mujahideen government in Afghanistan.
Masood has gained his worldwide reputation from effective fighting against the Soviet troops. He is the most powerful commander of the Afghan resistance.
Masood entered Panjshir valley, about 75 kilometers north of Kabul, from exile in Pakistan in the Spring of 1979 to start Jehad against the communist regime in KabuL He was accompanied by less then twenty Mujahideen and brought with him a few bolt-action guns which were bought by Jami’at from arms market in the tribal belt of Pakistan.
Masood liberated Panjshir and controlled it for two months before retreating to the upper part of the valley due to shortage of ammunition and being injured in fighting.
Learning a good lesson from this defeat, Masood began to put the foundation of a modem guerilla organization. He started to recruit volunteers for his guerrilla force and gave them military and political training. He adopted a hit-and-run tactic in place of confronting an enemy with massive fire power. He had liberated half of the Pdnjshir valley before the Red Army launched its first offensive against the valley in April of 1980.
Masood survived this massive attack and even his men captured some weapons. This psychological victory . consolidated his organization and increased the number of volunteers joining his forces.
From 1980 to 1988, the Red Army launched nine massive offensive against Masood's forces in Panjshir. In each successive attack, Soviets used more troops and fresh tactics. Masood was able not only to defend the valley but expanded his influence outside his home base. Soviets have admitted that Masood was responsible for most of the casualties inflicted on the Red Army.
His leadership qualities combined with the geographical structure of Panjshir and wholehearted support of people of the valley helped Masood to create the model of an effective military and civilian administration. Creation of this model was necessary before he could expand his influence
outside the valley.
The level of cooperation of the people of Panjshir with Masood was become known when Masood ordered evacuation of the valley from civilian
Cmdr. Mimad Shah Masood
population before the Seventh Offensive in 1984. The people of Panjshir left the valley without asking a question leaving behind all then-belongings.
Masood treats his Mujahideen with respect and affection. He has been able to turn ordinary farmers into disciplined commanders who not only know about tactics of war but also have learned the art of dealing with people.
Masood's power of prediction enabled him to develop his organization with pace of developments. Penetration of the enemy sensitive organizations, both Soviet and the regime, helped him to prepare for the possible enemy moves. Formation of small and self-sufficient bases, organizing the Mujahideen into local , mobile and central groups and creation of the Islamic army were proved to be timely
Masood felt the need for a civil administration in the areas he controlled to provide health, education, transportation and reconstruction services to the people and insure their participation in Jehad.
He is famous for his forgiveness. He released a young man who shot at him but missed him. He also spared the life of an assassin who wanted to kill him in Taliqan at the beginning of 1991.
Despite his military engagements, Masood has tried to increase his knowledge about Islam. He reads Holy Quran regularly and study book when
he finds time. Like most Afghans, he does not miss listening to BBC and VOA.
Masood conducts a simple way of life. The house in which his family lives is not distinguishable from other houses in the village. He is married and has two children. His marriage was kept secret from public for several years because it would have exposed himself and his family to enemy attacks.
Masood deals with the financial aspects of Jehad openly. He believes that secrecy about income and expense gives room to hannful speculations.
His is known for fulfilling his promise even if that costs him a lot of troubles. Manoki Mangal, the political deputy of the defense ministry of the regime was his prisoner in Panjshir. Manoki's family asked Masood to release him. Masood did not release him but promised not to kill him. Manoki managed to escaped from jail with the help of Hezb Islami and became chief of one of the directorates of KHAD. Manoki caused a lot trouble for Masood but he never regretted sparing his life.
The Soviet and Kabul regime tried to assassinate him many tunes. None of these attempts were successful. Masood had a mobile life for several years. He rarely slept in one place two successive nights. As he expanded his territory life become easier for him.
As Masood became more famous, his rivals spread more rumors about him. One of the controversial issues used against him was the ceasefire that he made with the Soviets in Panjshir in 1983. He struck a deal with the Soviets to expand his work outside the valley. His rivals accused him of sell out of the cause. He has never apologized for his deal and still thinks that it was a timely decision which benefited the Mujahideen.
His rivals also accuse him of trying to become the leader of Tajiks. He has rejected this accusation and there is no solid evidence to justify the accusation leveled against him.
His rivals also allege that Masood was being prompted by the intemadon al media The media has reported the positive things done by Masood. These publicities has served the interest of Jehad.
Masood has. always tried to deal with the outside world through Jami'aL All of his relations with the outside world is cleared first with Prof.