   AEfiBAOCTS__YDL.II NQ. 14_15-7-1986
PAGE 4
    Dr. Abdul Hay also met his Excellency the Foreign Minister of the Islamic Republic and discussed matters of mutual interest. The delegation visited Afghans living in Iran and heard their problems and briefed them about the situation.
    The delegation paid a visit to the border areas between Iran and Afghanistan and met with elders, Ulema and Mujahideen from the Western parts of Afghanistan.
    The delegation reviewed the religious and secular schools established by jamiat in Khurasan province in Iran and advised on the improvement of educational activities.
    It should be mentioned that more than one and half million Afghan refugees are living in Iran.
                       NEWS FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS NORTH EAST OF AFGHANISTAN
    On June 6, the first day of Eid (celebration of the end of Ramazan) the enemy started aerial bombing on Khost-O-Fering (a District of Baghlan province) and Eshkamish (a District of Takhar province). Bombing started from 3 a,m. and continued until 9 p.m. In the first days of the attack the targets were mosques, Bazars, villages and Eid' celebration grounds. Later the bases of Mujahideen and heavy weapon emplacements were hit.
    Later enemy artillary also took part in the bombardment. On June 16th, the enemy ground forces started an offensive against Eshkamish.
    On June 18th, Soviet heliborne troop landed in Khailab valley (a deep valley between Eshkamish and Khost-O-Fering). The enemy forces faced severe resistance from local Mujahideen and Central Forces units. Four transport helicopters were shot down and 30 enemy Commandos were killed. The body of one of the enemy Commanders fell into the hands of Mujahideen from whom maps and other valuable documents were recovered.
    After four days, according to reliable sources in the Mujahideen the enemy had lost seven helicopters and three Jets and casualties (kilted and wounded) have reached 150.
    Casualties among ordinary people, specially during the first days when villages and mosques were hit were around 250 (killed and wounded). So far the Mujahideen have lost 20 men and others have been wounded. The fighting is still going on when this report was written (24 May).