AFGHANews Vol 5, No 23,
December 1,1989, page ©
Most Mujahideen leaders see problems in polling
Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, the elections commissioner of the AIG, told reporters in Islamabad on November 22 that elections for a Shoora will be held by April 1990.
He did not disclose the procedure for casting votes but said that every Muslim Afghan above the age of 25 can contest, and every Afghan above the age of 16 can vote.
Since elections will be held in Afghanistan, refugees camps in Iran and Pakistan and other countries, it must be a complex process requiring a huge administrative body.
Two parties, Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) and NTFA, insist on elections to endorse the interim government, but others see practical difficulties on the way of holding polls.
In order to hold elections in the refugee camps in Iran, the government of Iran must cooperate. This cooperation depends largely on agreement between Iran-based and Pakistan Mujahideen parties on how to hold elections.
Some parties are afraid that due to the war, holding elections may not be possible inside the country, and elections will be only held in the refugee
The deputy education minister of the Kabul regime sought political asylum from French government at the beginning of November.
Abdul Hamid Mubariz had earlier served as the head of the regime news agency, Bakhtar, and as governor in several provinces.
He was participating in the UNESCO annual meeting when he decided not to return to Afghanistan.
In an interview with the BBC he said that the reason for his defection was pressure exerted by the ruling party on non-party intellectuals.
Regarding the situation in Afghanistan, he said that the Kabul regime was besieged in some cities. The rest of the country was controlled by the Mujahideen. He added that the situation was not in their favor because the people did not want the regime.
Mr. Mubariz stressed the need for unity among all the resistance groups.
Re emphasized the need for concerted propaganda efforts to counter disin-
camps. Thus a truly representative body will not emerge.
Furthermore, talk about elections and their arrangement has taken most of the time of the Mujahideen leaders, and they are not payifig necessary attention towards the military aspects of the struggle.
In an interview with MIDIA Prof. Rabbani said it was the decision of the Mujahideen organizations as well as the AIG to hold elections. "In our view, when we have elections they should be held all over the country, and all the Afghan Muslim people should have the opportunity to participate in them.”
He added that although he was in favor of elections, he did not believe the conditions were right for doing so at the present He mentioned the heavy air and rocket bombardments by the enemy, the Mujahideen's preoccupation with fighting the regime, and lack of strong administration as some factors which pose problems for holding elections. "Elections in one part of Afghanistan, or only among the refugees, can never represent the whole nation, therefore they are absolutely unacceptable," the Jami’at leader said.
formation spread by the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime regarding the situation in Afghanistan.
Hamid Mubariz has been allowed to stay in France.
After General Zarifs defection, Mubariz is the highest-ranking regime official to defected in recent months.
AIG, Shia parties meet in peshawar
A delegation of Iran-based Mujahideen headed by Mohammed Karim Khalili has reached Peshawar to discuss the issue of their joining the interim government.
In an interview with the daily Muslim, Khalili said that his delegation will not stress implementation of the accord reached between the two sides before convening the consultative Shoora last February. According to that agreement, seven out of the 28 seats in the cabinet of the interim government would have been given to the Iran-based parties.
Khalili said that the issue of holding elections for a new Shoora one. year after the formation of the AIG will be discussed.
He stated that he was not against holding elections, but that conditions were not conductive to holding elections at this stage.
He rejected the impression that Iran's Afghan policy had changed. He said Iran's call for a broad-based government did not include Najib's regime.
He added that even if Iran had asked for such a thing' the Iran-based Mujahideen would have rejected it.
Shoora-i-Ittifaq joined the coalition of Iran-based parties on October 25, raising the number of parties in the Coalition to 9.
Shoora-i-Ittifaq Islami, led by Ayatollah Behishti, has been active since the communist coup of 1978. It developed problems with two radical Shia parties, Nasre and Sepah, and because of that it remained out of the coalition of Iran-based Mujahideen parties.
Shoora-i-Ittifaq is a traditional Shia party which has good relations with the Pakistan-based Mujahideen parties.
*
Please help us publish AFGHANews!
Dear reader.
We have been sending you AFGHANews free for some time. As you know, our resources are shrinking daily and we find we must ask you for help.
If you would like AFGHANews to be published and sent to you, please send your donations to the following account number:
JEHAD
Account No. 735-37
Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala
(Jehangirabad) Peshawar- Pakistan
Defecting deputy minister says Afghan people oppose PDPA