IN THE NAME OF kiMQirtY ALLAH : :^g§.
^ .. .. ^
____
Vol 6, No 22
November 15,1990
Jami'at condemns desecration of the Babri Mosque by Hindu exremists
Jami'at condemns the desecration of Babri Mosque and the killing of innocent Muslims by extremist Hindus.
Hindus want to destroy the 400-year-old Babri mosque and build a temple in its place.
The decision by the Indian government to let Hindus worship their idols inside the Babri mosque was an open desecration of a Muslim holy place. This is the first mosque in the world in which an idol is being worshipped.
Jami'at asks OIC, the Islamic countries and other international organizations to put pressure on the Indian government to fulfill its duty in providing protection to Indian Muslims and their worship-places.
v	^
Peace prize for Gorbachev makes Afghans angry
Mohammad Es'haq since 1985., in the same list as Dr. Cordovez, the former representa- Sakharov, who went to jail for his op-tive of the UN Secretary General, has position to the Soviet invasion of said that Afghans should be happy that Afghanistan.
Nobel Peace Prize was given to Those who are familiar with the Goibachev.	past record of Cordovez chi
In an article published in the Afghanistan will not be surprised by Herald Tribune, the former UN diplo- his uncalled-for advice to Afghans. He mat and architect of the Geneva been an admirer of Gorbachev
War produces new economic class in Kabul
High prices have forced the Kabul regime to provide food at subsidized prices to more than 150,000 military and civilian officials and members of the ruling party., It also spends large sums to keep the prices of some essential items low. But the majority of Afghans living under control of the regime neither earn high salaries nor are provided with subsidized-price food.
Antony Hymen, a British specialist on Afghanistan, told BBC that when the Mujahideen block the Salang and Jalalabad roads the effects will be felt immediately by the people living in the cities. But the Soviet Union brings supplies by air to make sure of the survival of the regime. Daily, up to 30 giant transport planes land in Kabul to bring supplies to the besieged city.
A French citizen who wait to Kabul some time ago said there were, two economic paths left open to the people: either join the militia forces to get high salaries, or get involved in trade.
Most of the foreigners visiting Kabul are surprised to see expensive items being sold. The reason for availability of such items is creation of a new economic class, which includes high-ranking officers, militia commanders and merchants. They are the product of this war; they have enough money to buy expensive items. The majority of the people live in absolute poverty.
It has even been reported that expensive cars are being flown to Kabul from Dubai.
Accords lauded the role of Gorbachev in withdrawing Soviet troops from Afghanistan.
The reason given by the Nobel Prize Committee for choosing Goibachev to receive the prize is, however, other than what Cordovez is trying to say. They have decorated Goibachev for arms reduction, allowing changes in Eastern Europe and some changes at home and not for Soviet policy towards Afghanistan.
Contrary to what Cordovez try to prove, Gorbachev's Afghan policy negates his role as a man of peace. He still sends sophisticated arms to the Kabul regime and prevents Afghans from determining their future. More than 500 Soviet advisors help the regime in combat activities and cross-border raids against the Mujahideen still continue. ( It is a shame to put Gorbachev, who is responsible for the continuation of war in Afghanistan
from the start and was used by the Soviets to spread rumors about Mujahideen commanders . When he visited Moscow to talk about a settlement, Shevardnadze told him that important commanders had signed secret deals with the Kabul regime. He believed the disinformation and repeated it in Islamabad and other places, thus creating doubts about major Mujahideen commanders in resistance.
One should not forget that Cordovez was not favoring the Soviet for free. He has ambitions of becoming the UN Secretary General and in order to fulfil this dream he needs the favor of the Soviet Union.
Cordovez did not like the Afghan resistance. He called the Mujahideen "counter-revolutionaries", a term used by the Soviets and the Kabul regime. He arranged signing of the Geneva Accords which turned the Soviet inva-
Turn to page (4 )