AFGHANews Vol 8, No 4, February 15, 1992, page ©
Militia forces challange Najibullah's authority
The Kabul regime has been facing Foreign correspondents based in rebellion of major militia forces and Kabul have confirmed the Mujahideen some units of the army close to the report of a major crises along the Soviet border since January 13. So far, northern border, efforts to defuse the tension have	Rasool was the former chief of the
failed.	notorious Pul-i-Charkhi prison during
* The crises began when Najib or- the rule of former president Hafizullah dered replacement of the commander Amin, who was killed in the 1979 of Hayratan garrison, General Moomen Soviet invasion, from Andarab District, Baghlan	Diplomatic sources in Kabul has
Province, by Rasool Bey Khuda, an of- described the situation as extremely Freer from Kandahar. General Moomen delicate as disturbances in Hayratan refused to comply with the order.	could affect food prices in Kabul and
Najib was worried about the grow- because ethnic tensions could, as they ing influence of some officers within have in the past, spill over into the the army whose loyalty to him were Afghan military and factionalised uncertain. He wanted to replace them Watan Party.
with more loyal officers. It is said that Although no major clash has taken General Moomen's distribution of place, the Mujahideen commanders in weapons among militia groups without the area have reported small-scale permission of Kabul prompted the or- fighting between units of 18th army di-der of his transfer.	vision and militias of Dostom in Balkh
Hayratan is the only land outlet for and Jawzjan provinces, the regime to the outside world. The Mujahideen also have reported "Friendship Bridge" on the Amu river that the road between Hayratan and connects the town with the former Mazar remained closed since the start Soviet Union.	of drama.
After rebellion, Moomen contact- They have reported that the mili-ed Rashid Dostom and Sayyed Kayan, lias of Dostom and Kayan have contact-the heads of two powerful militia ed the local Mujahideen to seek then-groups in the north. They announced support in case tension turns into a ma-their support to General Moomen. Very jor armed clash, quickly the crises took the form a lin- Informed sources among the guistic issue ~ non-Pushtoons against Mujahideen say that the crises in Pushtoons. It is said that the local mili- Hayratan is like the tip of an iceberg, tias and officers hated the rule of Juma Najib has no solution for the deep divi-Asek, the regime commander' of north- sions among different factions within. em theater. The two sides alerted their the regime. Ironically, Najib exploited forces and tension raised in Mazar-i- and even promoted these differences of Sharif and the neighboring provinces ethnic and linguistic nature in his war of Jawzjan, Kunduz and Baghlan,	for survival against the Mujahideen and
Najib sent Asif Delawar to Balkh his internal rivals.
Province to negotiate an end to the The Kabul regime has made no stand off between top militia com- statement about the crises in Hayratan mander Abdur Rashid Dostom and and no foreign journalist has been al-Colonel General Juma Asek	lowed to visit the area.
+--------------------------------------------------------------N
:"The story of victory" stuns Sydney j
I In the middle of one of Sydeny’s hottest days, 22 February, more than 1201 I members of the Afghan community gathered in a hall in Auburn to watch "The | I Story of Victory" (Hadith-i-Fatah), the first ever documentary film made by | I the Mujahideen inside Afghanistan.	I
I The crowed cheered, was horrified and then wept as they witnessed the | I victorious liberation of Khwaja Ghar city by the Mujahideen, the barbaric re-1 I venge of the Kabul regime using air bombardment and SCUD missiles, the | I killing of civilians and destruction of cities and villages.	I
1 More than 40 copies of the film were sold as video cassettes during the | I show in Sydney and Melbourne. Earlier the film was shown in Melbourne's | I Nobel Park.	|
I The film show in both cities was organized by the representation of| I Jami'at Islami Afghanistan in Australia.	|
lv...........................................................   —	'
CBR builds Bang! road
Consultant Bureau for Reconstruction (CBR), a private organization, has almost completed the repair work of Bangi sub-District road, Takhar Province, Engineer Kamaluddin, the director of CBR, reported.
The work on 25 kilometer road connecting Bangi to Kunduz-Kishm highway is at its final stages, he said. Construction of three culverts on the road has been completed.
An interesting point about this project is the use of machinery captured in Khwaja Ghar in the repair work. The Mujahideen had captured the machinery of the Kookcha Project, an abandoned agricultural project initiated with the technical assistance from Soviet Union. Some of these machines are in working conditions, others, numbering more than 60, need repair and spare parts.
Commander Masood agreed to let the CBR make use of the captured machinery in reconstruction projects in the area. The following machinery were used in the repair of Bangi road:
Dump trucks.........8
Bulldozer...........1
Scraper.............1
Excavators......... 2
CBR and the Supervisory Council are involved in negotiations with some donor agencies for the repair of the remaining machines. If repaired, their use will speed up the repair of roads damaged by the war.
Repair of Bangi road is the first phase of Bangi-Khost road which is about 110 kilometers long. This road will connect Khost District, Baghlan Province, to the main road in the North. Khost had no road before the Soviet invasion. The Supervisory Council built a road from EShkamish, Takhar Province, to Khost, usable only by jeeps.
Help us publish AFGHANews!
Please send your donations to the following account number:
JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan