AFGHANews Vol 8, Nos 21 & 22, November 15, 1992, page©
Hezb refuses to abide I by peace agreement
Hezb’s leader has set new conditions Tor the withdrawal of his forces from south of Kabul, apparently abrogating the terms of the ceasefire he signed after his August defeat outside the capital.
Talking to a gathering in Charasyab, the text of which was published in the Hezb newspaper, he said it would be unfair to withdraw his forces while Shura-i-Nazar forces remained in Kabul.
"I will withdraw my forces 10 kilometers if Shura forces withdraw five kilometers," he promised.
But according to the terms of the August 29 truce, Hezb forces, must withdraw from around Kabul at the same time as General Dostum’s forces leave the capital.
In the same meeting, Gulbuddin remarked that he was not tired of war, and that waging lehad (sic) was like offering prayers. "I do not become tired of praying, and do not ask how long should I pray,” he said.
Addressing a press conference in
To end the armed conflict between Hezb Islam! of Hikmatyar and the Islamic government, a peace committee including representatives of all parties was formed in Ningarhar. The committee succeeded in arranging the following ceasefire agreement between Hezb Islami and the Government:
•	A permanent ceasefire shall be observed. The causes of the present conflict shall be removed and the problems shall be solved through peaceful negotiations. The ceasefire will lake effect at 12:00 noon on August 29.’
•	Based on (he previous decisions of the Leadership Council, the former communist regime militia forces will be withdrawn from the city and strategic points of Kabul The withdrawal will start within one week and be completed as soon as possible.
•	Based on the decision of the Leadership Council, communist officials will be purged from the army and other government offices.
•	Based on the decision of the Leadership Council, each province will send one representative to the Jehadi Council of the Defense Ministry to as-
Jalalabad alongside Shamali Khan, the spokesman for the Jalalabad Peace Committee, he said he was pleased with result of his attacks on Kabul.
As a result of his rocket attacks, as many as 2,000 people were killed and j several thousand more injured. The attack inflicted heavy material losses on the city, and forced hundreds of thousands of Kabulis to flee.
Shamali Khan's presence at Hikmatyar's press conference makes a mockery of his "peace” mission. Hikmatyar used the occasion to repeat his allegations against the government
Hikmatyar insisted that General Dostum and Jabar Qahraman, a Pushtun militia commander from Helmand whose men are guarding Hikmatyar’s headquarters in Charasyab, were "different."
Though he did not elaborate, one clear difference is that Dostum rebelled against and helped overthrow Najib, while Jabar remained loyal to the dictator until Najib left power and took refuge in a UN office in Kabul.
sist the formation of an Islamic army under the Defense Ministry.
•	The Interior Ministry will convene the council of commanders of Kabul to prepare the ground for security arrangements in the city and outlying districts of Kabul.
•	Hezb forces will retreat from
their positions around Kabul simultaneously with start of the withdrawal of militia units.	• -
•	The communists and militia forces who have joined Hezb should be purged and sent back to their provinces.
•	A peacekeeping force from Ningarhar, Parwan, Logar, Kabul and Wardak provinces will be deployed in the areas evacuated by both sides.
•	After the formation of units of the Defense and the Interior Ministries, the peacekeeping force will be evacuated and the forces of these ministries will take their place.
•	A committee of Ulama and commanders will formed to determine which side was responsible for the start of the hostilities.
•	All parties and commanders will support the Islamic government.
•	Whichever side breaks this peace accord shall be responsible for the consequences.
j BBC reporters
Hezb Islami has warned British	Broadcasting
Corporation reporters not to enter Afghanistan, and has threatened their Afghan employees. A Hezb communique published in Pakistan accused the BBC of misquoting Hikmatyar. The BBC reported that he had said he was under pressure from Saudi Arabia and Pakistan to compromise with the Islamic govemmenL
The Hezb communique said BBC foreign correspondents will not be allowed to enter Afghanistan, and that Afghans working for the BBC Will be captured and tried as spies. . .
Hikmatyar has threatened the BBC in the past, but at the same lime never hesitated to use the BBC and other world media to project his views. The BBC Pashto Service even allowed Hezb spokesmen to read an unedited "political" communique over the aii during August even as they and their Khalqi allies carried out a terrorist campaign of rocket attacks against the people of Kabul.
Andy Skrzypkowiak, a cameraman for BBC TV, was killed by Hezbis in Nooristan in 1986, The murderers were captured by Pakistani police but were released a few month later with the support of Hezb backers in Pakistan's security forces.
Hikmayar loses three choppers
Commander Dccdar of Hezb Islami was killed in a helicopter crash in Maidan Shar, the provincial capital of Wardak, on September 4. Four other people accompanying Deedar were also killed in the crash, which was caused by technical problems.
The helicopter was flying from Lalandar, south of Kabul, to Maidan Shar.
Reports say that another helicopter which was bringing ammunition to the Hezb front crashed in Kohi Korugh. Overloading is thought to be the caused the crash.
No one was hurt in the crash but the helicopter was destroyed.
Another helicopter, hijacked by a pilot loyal to Hikmatyar, was seized by the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Pul-i-Alam, the provincial capital of Logar, when it landed mistakenly in an area controlled by forces loyal to the Islamic government
Text of the Ceasefire Agreement