AFGHANews Vol5, No 13, July 1, 1989, page @
Kabul province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at killed or wounded 20 regime soldiers and captured 10 more on June 11 when they attacked two posts in Qala-i-Murad Beg, about 15 kilometers north of the city of Kabul.
The Mujahideen seized the following items:
20 Kalashnikov rifles 2 PK machine-guns 1 ZPU machine-gun 1 DShK machine-gun 1 Mortar
600 boxes of Ammunition- different types
Five Mujahideen were injured and one Mujahid was killed in fighting.
The enemy retaliated by shelling and bombing the Shakar Dara and Qala-i-Murad Beg areas, inflicting losses on the property.
The report sent by Dr. Khan Agha adds that the enemy has no presence in the Shakar Dara and Qala-i-Murad Beg areas. The enemy's control is limited to Khair Khana pass overlooking the city.
Dr. Khan Agha, Jami'at commander in Qala-i-Murad Beg, has a well organized front close to the capital.
As a result of his and other Mujahideen's activities in this strategic area the enemy was forced to build a new road which connects the two airports of Bagram and Khwaja Rawash and bypasses Shakar Dara district
Dr. Khan Agha lost his brother. Commander Soldianyar who was also his deputy, one month ago in fighting against the communists. He has been closely working with the Supervisory Council of the North.
In a joint attack the Mujahideen captured forty officers and more than 200 soldiers and seized eight tanks in Husian Koot, North of the city of Kabul, on June 12.
Commander Anwar, Commander Mastamand and Commander Mohammad Aajan launched the attack.
The Mujahideen also seized a large number of weapons and a considerable amount of ammunition. The report sent by the commanders does not give any detail of fighting or the casualties on either side.
Husain Koot is about 20 kilometers north of the city of Kabul on Kabul-Salang highway.
Recently, the regime built a new road from Bagram air base to Khawja Rawash airport to bypass the section of the road passing through Qara Bagh, Husain Koot and Shakar Dara in the face of increased military activities by the Mujahideen.
Kandahar province
On June 11, the Mujahideen in Qandahar shot down a regime helicopter with a Stinger missile. The plane crashed in Achekzay area and caught fire.
On the same day, the Mujahideen fighting around the airport set Fire to an enemy tank and a food depot.
In Lashkargah 40 militiamen joined the Mujahideen, bringing one
tank.
Badakhshan province
Soviet troops are still involved in combat missions against the Mujahideen in the areas close to the common border between the two countries.
Mohammad Kabood who is from Darwaz district told Afghanews that hundreds of Soviet soldiers crossed the Amu river on motorboats and attacked the Mujahideen position on March 25.
In the fighting which continued for three days the Soviet artillery and warplanes also participated in support
of their ground forces.
Nine Mujahideen, including Najibullah the deputy commander of the Mujahideen in Darwaz, and 60 civilians were killed. Soviet soldiers also killed more than 100 cattle. The Soviets lost about 40 soldiers in the fighting.
Kabood who was a witness to the fighting said that the reason for the Soviet attack was the Mujahideen attack on the regime base in Zengria.
He added that when the regime units come under the Mujahideen's attack, they fire artillery shells inside the Soviet territory to provoke a retaliation against the Mujahideen. Sometimes the retaliation takes the form of artillery and aerial bombardments and other times the form of ground attacks.
Talib Jan another Mujahid who arrived in Peshawar said that regime forces are stationed in four places in the border district of Darwaz. He said that regime forces who are mainly militias of the Ismailia sect are holding these positions with the active support of the Soviet troops. According to Talib, Ismailias form about 10 percent of the population of Darwaz. Mohabbat Shah the governor of Darwaz belong to the Ismailia community.
Due to a road block it takes several weaks to walk from Darwaz to Pakistan. This is the reason for the late reporting of the event
Balkh province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at destroyed one tank and captured a security post of the enemy on June 15, near the city of Mazar.
The post which was located in Sultan Baba area was part of the security belt to protect the city.
The report is silent about the casualties of the two sides.
The Mujahideen from Jami'at killed six enemy soldiers and captured two when they captured two posts in Chemtal district on June 7. The Mujahideen seized eight Kalashnikov rifles.
One of the posts belonged to the Fertilizer Company and the other was located in Sar Asiab area.
The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured 23 soldiers and three officers and set on fire three tanks when they attacked the enemy posts in Shadian on June 10.
All the enemy posts were captured and the following weapons were
Turn to page ( 3 )