AFGHANews Vol8, NoS, March 1,1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Amina Safi Afzali
Amina Afzali is the head of the Muslim Sisters' Organization (MSO), which works for the welfare of Afghan refugee women and orphans in Iran.
MSO was established in 1985. Its head office is in Tarbet-i-Jam, a border town in Iran's Khurasan province. It has branch offices in Mashhad, Taibad and Teheran.
MSO has established 12 schools, in which a total of 3500 Afghan refugee children are taught by 98 teachers. They have also opened a school for girls in Ghoryan District, Herat.
Amina has participated in three international seminars on Afghanistan. Two of these seminars were organized by the Foreign Ministry of Iran in Teheran. The Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan arranged the third, held in Islamabad, where she read a paper on the role of Afghan women in reconstruction of Afghanistan.
MSO holds occasional public meetings, distributes Mujahideen literature , shows films on Jehad and carries out relief operations. Last year, MSO distributed relief goods, among 200 newly arrived refugees from Zindajan. It publishes a paper called Rah Rawan-i-Rah-i-Somayya. It has close contact with Afghan women's organizations based in Pakistan.
MSO has opened classes where refugee girls are taught tailoring, embroidery and knitting. The purpose of these projects is to enable refugee families, especially those who have lost their menfolk in the war, to earn their living.
Jami’at Islami, Shaheed Afzali Front, ISRA (an Arab relief organization) and the Norwegian Committee far Afghanistan all finance MSO projects.
Amina Afzali is the widow of late Safiullah Afzali, the founder of the Afzali Front in Herat He was assassinated in 1988 by terrorists in Iran. The Iranian authorities captured the .assassins but they were later released.
Amina came in contact with the Islamic Movement when she was a student of Mehria High School in Herat Hafizullah Afzali, her cousin, encouraged her to work for the cause of
Islam. Hafizullah was a prominent member of die Islamic Movement and a student in the journalism department of the Faculty erf Literature at Kabul University. He lock part in the uprising of 1975 against President Daud in Panjshir and was martyred there.
Amina played an active part in the Islamic Movement when she was a student in the Faculty of Science at Kabul University. A considerable number of girls from the university and other schools had joined the Islamic Movement
Amina completed her studies in 1978 and became a teacher in the Mehria School in Herat After three months, she quit her jab because the school authorities wanted her to join the communist party. She married Safiullah Afzali, her cousin and college classmate.
After leaving her job, Amina formed a secret organization to struggle against the communists. A handful of teachers and students joined. They distributed "night-letters" and Mujahideen literature in the city. When Karima, a member of this organization, was captured, other members went under ground or migrated to Iran. Karima was captured while trying to post a photo of Prof Rabbani, Jami'at Islami leader, on a wall in the city of Herat. She was sentenced to three years prison.
In 1981 Amina became a refugee in ban, where she resumed her activities among the refugees. In 1985 she founded MSO. She performed Haj two years ago.
She was bom 36 years ago in Shahr-i-Naw district of the city of Herat Her father, Haji Amanullah Notqi, a Tajik, was an official in the Ministry of Education. Haji Amanullah was from Qaysan, a village in Ghoryan District of Herat.
Amina attended primary school in Herat and high school in Sultan Radhiya School in Mazar, where his father was posted. She finished the last year of school in Mehria High School in Herat.
Eng. Farouq, a cousin of Amina and a representative of the Afzali Front in Peshawar, said that Amina's family has a long history of fighting for Islam and freedom. One of her grandfathers, Abdul Wahab, was martyred in fighting against Russians in Bukhara.
Amina has three daughters.
IN BRIEF

«*3r