AFGHANews Vol 8, No 17, September 1, 1992, page @
The people of Afghanistan opposed the attacks. Every Friday mosques held moving scenes pf people protesting the violence. While the people criticized the government by name for failing to put an end to it quickly, they avoided naming Gulbuddin be-cause of fear of reprisal of Hezb. The people of Kabul have lived for a decade and a half under the rule of dictators, and know the consequences of criticizing men like Hikmatyar ppenly.
Around 1,000 people, including some women, demonstrated in Mazar against Gulbuddin's terrorism.. They also opposed the ceasefire agreement, and demanded that Hezb's military power be crushed. Afghans in . Delhi, London,Washington and Sydney held rallies against the attacks on Kabul.
Many people, including some senior Mujahideen commanders, opposed the ceasefire, thinking that Gulbuddin would use the opportunity to resupply and , prepare for another war. Gulbuddin’s recent statement that refugees should not return to their homes is a source of worry in this regard.
Hikmatyar accepted the ceasefire because his attack had failed and he needed time to regroup and resupply. The plight of the refugees, problems of food and fuel supplies for the winter, and pressure from abroad forced, the government to accept the truce.
During the fighting, a convoy of food and fuel, accompanied by several thousand men, both from Mujahideen parties and divisions 53 and 80, reached Jabulseraj on its way to Kabul. The defense ministry had requested the ::ood and fuel.
Since entry of this convoy to Kabul would have given substance to Gulbuddin's propaganda and would have damaged relations among the Mujahideen parties supporting the government, the Defense Minister ordered the troops accompanying the convoy to returfi to Kailagai in Baghlan Province. Hezb claimed that it forced the convoy to return.
In an interview with BBC, General Dostum supported the ceasefire and reaffirmed his loyalty to the Islamic government There are about 2,500 fighters from his 53rd Division defending Kabul.
One of Hikmatyafs odd maneuvers was to send Abdul Saboor Farid, the ex-Prime Minister from his party, on a foreign tour. Hezb claimed that he was invited by Pakistani, Iran, Turkey, Saudi Arabian and Tajikistan to pay official visits to these countries.
But Pakistan and Iran both said that his visit was private. Iranian papers called Fareed an unwanted guest. Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Tajikistan re-
fused to allow him to come. Farid returned to Pakistan after a visit to Geneva for medical treatment.
The Leadership Council expelled Hikmatyar from the council and conditioned Farid’s, return to office on his resignation from Hezb, or his condemnation of the rocket attacks on Kabul.
How long will this ceasefire last?
This u the question on everybody's lips. More than a decade of experience has shown that Hikmatyar breaks his promises whenever it suits him. He used each previous ceasefire to prepare for the next round of terrorist attacks. While he cannot be trusted, the government can prevent further fighting by re-, maining fully prepared to defend Kabul and by improving the law and order situation in the city, cooperation of the parties within the government, improvement of law and order situation and measure to prevent supply of arms and money for Hezb from outside.
If the defense ministry* of the Islamic government prepares itself for the defense of Kabul and avoids mistakes of the past, another war will be most unlikely.
Hikmatyar has always exploited differences between parties within the government. In particular he has profited from clashes between Hezb Wahdat and Ittihad. If these parties resolve their differences peacefully, Hezb will be less likely to exploit the disorder by mounting armed attacks.
If the authorities can improve the law and order situation in Kabul, it will help restore the people’s confidence in the Islamic government, making them less vulnerable to Hezb’s propaganda campaign.
If Pakistan stops supplying arms, ammunition, fuel and volunteers to Hikmatyar, and bans Hezb's political and propaganda activities in Pakistan, the likelihood of further attacks will diminish, r
Finally, if certain Middle Eastern
circles stop funding Hezb's pointless campaign of terror against the Afghan people and their Islamic government, the chances of further fighting will vanish.
Rabbani seeks Iran's aid
President Burhanuddin Rabbani in a message to President Akbar Hashimi Raf sanj ani on August 22 appreciated Iran's assistance to the Afghan people.
He hoped Iran would provide the Afghan people with more relief supplies, especially oil products at this critical period.
Rabbani, a copy of whose message was made available to IRNA, said the Afghan people will always appreciate Iran's humanitarian aid.
UN supplies $10 million relief aid
The personal representative of the UN Secretary-General in Afghanistan and Pakistan, Mr. Sotirios Mousouris, said on August 23 that the United Nations agencies working in Afghanistan had prepared a $10 million package of emergency assistance to meet the urgent humanitarian need of the country arising from the current hostilities.
The areas covered in the package include: the transport of food aid (S4 million); medical supplies and supplementary feeding ($2 million); shelter materials ($2 million); and mine clearance (US $2 million), he said.
The emergency program will be implemented within the framework and budget of the Secretary-General’s consolidated appeal for assistance to Afghanistan launched on 6 June 1992, where US SI80 million was requested in the appeal but only US $42 million had been pledged so far, primarily for UNHCR's encashment programme in Pakistan, he disclosed.
According to Mr. Mousouris the current hostilities in Kabul have caused losses in human lives and vast damages in property and have seriously disrupted the return of to normal life in the country. He further said, over 1,800 civilian deaths have been reported, especially among women and children, with several thousands injured and seeking treatment Among the 17 hospitals in Kabul, only 8 are minimally functioning with 2,403 beds. While the few doctors available in the government hospitals are unable to provide urgently required medical and surgical services due to lack of electricity , water and essential medicines, including intravenous fluids, anesthetics, gauze and
bandages.
Food supplies in Kabul are rapidly becoming scarce and expensive and the price of a kilo of wheat for example, has more than doubled in the past two weeks, he added.
He added that the temporary evacuation of the international staff from Kabul, the practical operational difficulties, and the overall volatile security in the country have obliged the UN agencies to review the method of deliv ering assistance. The agencies agreed to strengthen their presence in the main provincial cities, and team leaders have been appointed in Herat, Jalalabad, Kandahar and Mazar to provide regular situation reports in their areas, hie said.