AFGHANews Vol5, No 4, February 15, 1989, page 3
* BM- 27 system	* Scud in launch	position
I" ■■■■A cohyoy carrying
January second to stren^thenthe positibn
Sdyiet^Afghan border*' '‘ v„y ; .	!;"•=;:>;0==--ii:.5
Recently Soviets have given BM^.iOctc^ the-special Guard Units of the’regit^%aV^	usev&ni
a^dxL&tt!hesV lg / •
;v-;The systetn,codenamed Organ, w^ideploy&I lh'thlkecent at* tM&sinPahjshirahdSalang.	' V\y.',-;	:iC;iCK.s
■. 4 The rocket which has a range of 40 Kaio.met^r^;:.d®vers he$d of 360 Kilqgraitis of explosives*	'"V-
• v\ The system has 1 ^barrels and is mountM-ptt^^	^
■:	Scud BM-27 rockets are used again'slrfe^^l^^
weapons' pose a serious.treat,to the..y illages:;and
Pilots defect with two Mi-35 helicopters
TWO pilots and four officers of the communist regime defected to the Mujahideen in Panjshir bringing with them two Ml-35 helicopters on February 5.
News
From Page (2)
The Mujahideen killed an officer and six soldiers of the regime, captured 1‘our soldiers and seized six guns in Jakan area on January 19.
Badghis Province
One Soviet tank was set on fire, three soldiers were killed and three guns were captured in Sang-i-Aatesh village four kilometers from Qala-i-Naw, the provincial capital of the province on January 17.
Two Mujahideen were killed and four others were injured.
The Mujahideen killed 10 militiamen wounded an unknown number and seized six guns when they attacked the security post in Qala-i-Naw on January 17.
The Mujahideen attacked the enemy security posts in the eastern part of Qala-i-Naw on January 15. Seven militiamen were killed and four were wounded. The Mujahideen captured four guns and some ammunition. Two Mujahideen were injured.
These operations were launched under the command of Naik Mohammad, Jami'at commander in Badghis.
Kabul Province
The Mujahideen of Paghman shot down two enemy jets.
A MIG-27 jet of the enemy which was bombing Paghman valley was hit by Mujahideen anti-aircraft guns and crashed on January 17. The pilot of the plane was killed. On January 18 an enemy jet of Su-22 type was also shot down by the Mujahideen.
Shoora
From Page ( 1)
They claim that Shias are 1/4 of the whole population of Afghanistan. The official census estimated die Shia sects as 8% of the population.
It is believed that the designated government of Engineer Ahmad Shah will be proposed to the council for a vote of confidence.
No major field commander is taking part in the meetings. The weather and military situation does not permit their participation. They will be represented by their delegates.
One of the helicopters was flown by Major Aarif from Andarab District and the other by Abdul Hay from Panjshir.
This is the first time that pilots defecting to the Mujahideen bring their helicopters with them. In the past some pilots landed their helicopter in Pakistan and surrendered them to the Pakistani authorities.
Ml-35 helicopters are the most modem helicopters delivered to the regime in 1988.
The pilots were welcomed by the Mujahideen.
Bombing of the bases of the Supervisory Council of the North by the Soviets continues. On February three, Khailab valley in Eshkamish district was bombed and on February four and five Worsaj valley was heavily bombed. No details about the casualties were available.
Soviet forces fired two Scud missiles into Panjshir on February four one of which hit a mountainous area in Bazarak and the other landed in Rukha, a town in the middle of the valley. Casualties were not reported.
Eighty five regimes's soldiers have killed their four officers and joined the Mujahideen in Salang.
The soldiers were stationed in the posts which were established along the
Salang highway on January 23.
Regime's . plane crashes in Pakistan
A transport plane belonging to the regime and which had entered Pakistan crashed near the town of Bannu in North-West Frontier Province killing all 9 of its occupants on February 1.