 AFGHANI Vol 4. No 8, April 15,1983, Page 4
 AFGHANews
 PO Box 264, Peshawar-Pakistsn Tel: 41381
Editorial

    THE GENEVA agreement which -was signed by the government of Pakistan and the Soviet-backed regime in Kabul dees not bring peace. The war for the total liberation of Afghanistan will enter a new phase after a possible with<3rawal of the Soviet troops.
    The agreement in Geneva has four instruments. Pakistan and the puppet regime mil pledge not to interfer in each others affairs; refugees are supposed to return to Afghanistan voluntarily; the Soviet Union mil withdraw its forces within 9 months and the USSR and USA guarantee the agreement. The Geneva accord is the result of more than five years efforts by UN mediator to bring about a settlement in Afghanistan.
    The agreement does not address the real issues and it is assumed that by withdrawing Soviet forces in return for stopping aid to the Resistance the issue mil be solved.
    The trouble in Afghanistan started in 1978 when a group of communists seised power through a military coup. They started to impose a communist system in the country. The people of Afghanistan resisted the regime and when it was about to be overthrown the Soviets intervened to save their friends.
    This shows that the roots of the problem is defiance to the communist regime by the people of Afghanistan and the Soviet's immediate aim at the time of the invasion was the imposition of the communist regime. The solution to the problem of Afghanistan will be through giving the right for self-determination to the people of that country end this has been recognized by the UN resolutions which forms the basis of the Geneva agreement.
    Despite repeated demands by the international community that Afghans must be given the right for self-determination, the Geneva agreement ignores that pivotal issue.
    The signing of the Geneva agreement is a practical admission by the signators and guarantors that the Kabul regime is entitled to decide about the future of Afghanistan.
    The practical implication of this is the Soviets' achievement of their aim (imposition of the Kabul regime) through apolitical process, on the people of Afghanistan, something which they had f ailed to achieve in the battlefield.
    Thanks God the Afghan Resistance can not be' blamed for this failure because it was never given a chance, to play the political role it was supposed to. The Resistance has repeatedly rejected any accord
                                                                                                       (see page 5)
    'The tragedy of Afgjeanistan' is the title of a new book which discusses the social, cultural and political impact of the Soviet invasion.
    The book is based on the proceedings of a seminar arranged in December 1935 by the Swedish institute of International Affairs on the theme "Afghanistan, a threatened culture." In the seminar both Afghan and Western scholars presented their papers on different aspects of Afghan life and their culture both at home and in exile.
    The editors. Bo Huldt and Erland Tartsson, state that the book aims to present a broad picture of what war, resistance and exile have meant for Afghanistan and for its agriculture. As it becomes increasingly difficult to get reliable information from Afghanistan this collection provides a valuable testimony to a national culture under siege.
    The book is published in USA by Croom Helm in association with Melhverjnc. 29 West 35th Street, New York, NY 19001.
                                         Soviets remove pipelines
SOVIETS haw removed a fuel pipeline which was exteneded from the Soviet border to Shindand air base in the West of the country.