AFGHANews Vol6, No 17, September 1,1990, page Q
Editorial
Mujahdideeh need to adjust plans for new situation
The Mujahideen may differ among themselves on many issues but the only question that they all agree on is the removal of the communist regime in Kabul and its replacement with a representative government The Soviet Union's and the Kabul Regime's manoeuvers halve failed to change this united position of the resistance.
The survival of the regime for more than one and a half years has made it more confident in its ability to survive and the enormous Soviet economic and military assistance has made it hopeful about its future. The Kabul regime has become less compromising and despite rhetoric about "peace" and "national reconciliation" it wants to play a key role in the future political life of Afghanistan.
Such an attitude of the regime leaves no other option for the Mujahideen than to continue fighting. The Mujahideen military performance after the Soviet troops' withdrawal has not been encouraging. The resistance's military efforts faced many problems including lack of supplies, poor organization, lack of coordination and international political pressure to solve the issue through peaceful means.
Although these difficulties still exist arid will prevent the Mujahideen's quick victory over the Kabul regime, the Resistance has the potential to change the situation to its benefit.
The successful operations in the past two weeks in Badghis and the Salang and the commanders efforts to unite their activities are encouraging developments.
Iraq's invasion of Kuwait and threat of war in the Gulf has posed a new problems for the Mujahideen. Those countries which provided material assistance to the refugees and the Mujahideen are caught in a crises themselves. The longer their involvement the less they can pay attenion to the Afghan problem.
The Mujahideen need to adjust their war efforts to this new situation and plan their future course of action accordingly. The situation calls for austerity measures and self-reliance schemes to be able to resist the enemy without substantial outside support
The Kabul regime has tried to increase its source of income by planning to restart the export of natural gas and getting more aid from UN.
Because the Soviet Union is facing financial problems, it will find it difficult to finance a never ending war in Afghanistan. The Soviet Union can give more guns and bombs to the Kabul regime but feeding millions of mouths and the provision of fuel for the war machine of the regime will hurt the ailing Soviet economy. The Mujahideen should not allow the Kabul regime to diversify its source of income. They have to expose one-sided assistance of the UN to the Kabul regime and prevent the export of natural gas to the Soviet Union at all costs.
The Mujahideen should make the Soviet proxy war in Afghanistan as expensive as possible to force that country to pay a dear price for its aggressive Afghan policy.
The Mujahideen can achieve this aim through the intensification of the war; coordination of military and political activities and the adoption of a reasonable war strategy.
Once the Soviets have abandoned their policy of imposing the Kabul regime, the door for the settlement of the Afghan issue through peaceful means will be opened and the Mujahideen should be ready to respond properly to a political initiative when that time comes.
No deal with the Kabul regime' is the united call of all the Mujahideen but, getting rid of it needs a united strategy and concerted efforts by All Afghans.
The fifth exhibition of Behzad Miniature Art Cotter was opened by Nancy Dupree, widow of the late Louis Dupree, in Peshawar on August 26.	.
Talking on the occasion, Ahmad Ali Shadad, the teacher and founder of the Behzad Miniature Center, hoped to keep alive the miniature art which originated and flourished in Herat
The Behzad Miniature Center was established with the help of the Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan in Islamabad in June 1989.
The Center follows the historical methods of Herat This method was founded there about 1,000 years ago.
The famous painters " include Kamaludin Behzad and Meerak whose valuable paintings are found in great museums of the world;
After long years this art was animated by the great artists such Ustad Mashal and Humayoon Etemadi at the present century v
During the Holy war (Jehad), the young Afghan miniaturist Shadad with the financial support of the Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan established this course and, after a long time this ancient art has been revived.
Now the Center has 30 students who are being taught by Shadad, Mohammad Naeem Hanifi and Ahmad Feraydoon.
The main goal of the establishment of this course is the reconstruction of the ancient culture of Afghanistan which has been destroyed during the protracted Russian: imposed war.
Shahdad the teacher from the Fine Arts Faculty of Kabul University was bom in Bek Toot village of Paghman District of Kabul in 1959.
After completing primary school he attended the Industry High School of Kabul and graduated from the Art Department of the school.
He studied at the Fine Arts Faculty of Kabul University and after completion of his studies, he was employed as a teacher of miniature by the Faculty and worked there for two years.
He had obtained 15 cultural awards during his study and work time. He also participated in die Calligraphic and Islamic Miniature Festival held in Baghdad and succeeded in earning a certificate from the Ministry of Information of Iraq.
The previous exhibitions held by the Center are:
1-	September 1989 during the Third International Hearing on Afghanistan held in Oslo.
2-	In several cities of Norway.
3-	The American Club, Peshawar May 11,1990.
4-	The Canadian High Commission, Islamabad May 25,1990.
The art exhibition will be open to visitors until September 5 at the following address:
43/D1 Old Jamrud Road
University Town, Peshawar.