AFGHANews Vol7, No 6, March 15,1991, page
The late recent disturbances in a political meeting of Mujahideen parties and during a seminar organized by an Afghan organization, involving members of a Mujahideen party, is a harmful development for Jehad. In both incidents, intervention by the police became necessary to restore order. Such incidents have taken place in the past, both in Peshawar and some Western countries, involving members of the same Mujahideen party.
These ugly incidents are deplorable and should be brought to an end. Such events earn a bad reputation for the Mujahideen, give the Kabul regime a prop-ganda tool and widen the gap between different groups of the. Afghan resistance.
In the absence of positive military and political news, such scenes during meetings of Afghans in exile, in front of journalists and guests from all over the world, damages the Mujahideen's image. The world expects Afghans to behave more reasonably and solve their political differences through dialogue. The Mujahideen have enjoyed the support and sympathy of the majority of world's people. These incidents will disappoint them.
No Mujahideen party or individual should forget for a moment that we are facing a sophisticated enemy which, despite its criminal record, has put up a humane facade. The Kabul regime, in collaboration with Moscow, talks about peace, reconciliation, a multi-party system, etc. We know that the offer is sham and the past record of the puppet government's members disqualify them from any political role in the future. But unfortunately not everyone can see that deep; they forget history quickly and are affected easily by skillful propaganda.
If some Mujahideen indulge intimidating their rivals by disrupting their meetings, regime propaganda against the Mujahideen will have even more effect on the minds of people inside and outside Afghanistan.
More important, the Afghan resistance is composed of spectrum of different political outlooks. Bringing these people together is a prerequisite for any major military and political achievement by the resistance. Any attempt to prevent different groups from expressing their views will divide the resistance further and weaken the chances of finding a common platform for the opponents of the Kabul regime.
Such incidents contradict the stated position of the involved party — namely that it favors the formation of an elected government in Afghanistan.
Jami'at earnestly demands the end of such a sad trend in the politics of the resistance. Let all Afghans opposed to the Kabul regime express their views freely, so that a consensus formula is found for the future of Afghanistan.
'Friendship Treaty' is cover for aggression
The 70th anniversary of the . signing of a 'Friendship Treaty’ between Afghanistan and the USSR was celebrated in Kabul with a lot of publicity. Two delegates, one representing Gorbachev and the other Yeltsin, visited Kabul. Week-long music and film festivals were held and Soviet singers and dancers were brought to give the occasion a special flavor. Political meetings were held to highlight the importance of the treaty.
The first Afghan-Soviet Friendship Treaty’ was signed on February 28, 1921. Very soon the Soviet Union ignored it, when it annexed the two Khanates of Khiva and Bukhara. This treaty was renewed by successive governments in Kabul.
The regime's enthusiasm in celebrating the occasion is normal. The regime is the product of Soviet intervention and has survived because of Soviet supplies of fuel and flour. But the regime always claims to speak on behalf of the Afghan people, and calls the treaty a symbol of friendship between the two peoples.
,	Turn to page (7 )
Review

Dust of the Saints By Radek Sikorski
Chatto and Windus £14.95
Radek Sikorski has written an exciting account of his journey to the great historic Afghan city of Herat. Its title. Dust of the Saints recalls the cultural and religious heritage of Herat. Sikorski went as a writer and skilled photographer, aiming to find out for himself who was in control of the city. ■A second reason he gives is the wish to discover exactly what happened there in Spring 1979, when an army mutiny and mass uprising had badly shaken the fragile communist regime.
Sikorski writes that he understood very well the religious faith which pervaded his stay in the country. "Tell any many that the faith of his ancestors, his morals and his daily customs are backward and useless, force him at gunpoint to adopt a way of life he had been taught to despise, and finally get a foreign army to bum his village and kill his family if he resists • and the end-product could be a fanatic, in any age or country."
The sheer difficulties of travel by horseback along rough mountainous paths had some obvious effects on media coverage of this war, especially in' the remote northwest of Afghanistan which few foreign journalists visited. As to why Herat in particular attracted Sikorski, he answers frankly it was danger which drew him, as well as the historic buildings.
A strong Polish nationalist, Sikorski was keen to see how the anti-Soviet guerrilla resistance was faring in this important Afghan region, isolated from the Pakistan borders where the "weapons pipeline" has alerted the nature of guerilla warfare through the 1980s.
"Afghanistan in general drew me through its spirit of brotherhood, which I had experienced in Poland during our revolution, and again among the Afghans.... when shared danger broke down barriers of culture and religion."
Some remarkable photographs illustrate Dust of the Saints, which will be enjoyed as a vivid travel book, besides having distinct merits as a personal appreciation of Herat in time of war Courtesy: ARIN