RFGHAH HEUS 001.Ill, HO.17,        1/9/1967,PAGE 2
The evidence about the Russian plan is quite clear. But the question is: will Russia succeed in its design? There is no doubt about the fact that if Russia could, it would have annexed the whole Afghanistan. In failing to do that, it might use annexation of the North and creation of a rump state in the south as an alternative. There are equally clear evidence, however, that Russia is doomed to fail in this as well. Some of the reasons are the following:
1-  The same factors that will determine Russia’s ultimate defeat in Afghanistan as a whole are also at work in the North: People’s strong faith in Allah, their readiness to sacrifice their belongings and their lives for the defence
of their religion and homeland, and their determination to * continue the struggle to the la3t person. Russia’s success— or rather lack of it--in coopting the Afghans is not different in the North than in other parts of the country (in spite of their efforts to incite people’s ethnic sentiments).'
2-  There is much more cooperation and coordination among Mujahideen in the Nort;h than in other parts of the country. Engineer Ahmad Shah Masoud’s activities and his "supervisory Council of the North” is specially significant in this regard.
3- Because x»f the social structure of Tajik, Uzbak and Turkman
people in the North, there is more room for the growth of broadbased politico-military organizations there then among Pushtoons in the South (see Olivier Roy's Islam and the Resistance in Afghanistan> .                    ’=■
4-  Similiar reasons that prevent Israel from annexing the occupied West Bank will finally force the Russians to alter their plan for annexation of Northern Afghanistan. They are:
a- The outcry and opposition of the world people as a whole and especially those of Muslims.
b- Big changes in the ratio of Musiira/non-Muslim population: Russians already feel threatened by the high birth rate among their subjugated Muslim citizens. Several million more Muslims with their high birth rate will certainly accelerate the pace of the "time-bomb*’. Moreover, as Western expersts on Russia (for example. Dr. Alexander Bennigsen) observe, because of the intercourse among the Muslims of Afghanistan and Russia, the spirtt of Jihad is slowly, but steadily, being expanded in the Muslim territories of Russia. Thus, Russians must realize that annexation of Northern of Afghanistan will mean the beginning of the end of their empire.
            PROF. RABBANI RETURNS TO PESHAWAR
Prof. Rabbani, leader of J.J.A., who had gone to West Germany on July 20 returned to Peshawar on August 24. During his trip,prof. Rabbani gave speeches to the Muslim communities in various German cities and talked to the TV, radio, and newspaper reporters.