  ABGHA&MffS VOL, .11__WLAl____U3Z13M__BAGSJL
 2. Coordination was translated from theory to action. For the first time Mujahideen from four provinces fought beside each other.
 3- It was seen by ail Mujahideen as encouragement to all Mujahideen to launch attacks against isolated enemy garrisons.
 4. It proves that the puppets are not able to keep the places which the Soviets occupied for them.
 5. It denies the pessemistic theory that the Mujahideen are losing the war. As the result of Soviet propaganda and the writtings of some shallow-minded journalists, some people have started to think that the Mujahideen are losing the war. In the Spring, offensive, commando action in June and the fall of Ferkhar garrison which all took part in the North. Mujahideen faught well and cooperated among themselves. Althoug in Farkhar operation ail the groups taking part were from Jamiat but it is planned to involve other parties in joint operations in the future.
 This victory is not the end of the war but the begining of more challenges. The enemy will not sit silent. It will try to nullify the result of the victory by some unpleasant actions.
 As long as Mujahideen are united, observe dicipiine and apply proper tactics, with the help of Almighty Allah, the enemy will be defeated.

                     MMJAHWWQAPTURW FERKHAR GARRISON
 Mujahideen from Jamiat under the command of Mulla Abdul Wadood, the Chief Commander of Takhar. attacked Ferkhar garrison at 5-45 pm on 17th of August. Fighting continued untill 3 30 am. Half of the garrison was captured. The second phase of the attack was launched on August 20th at 5.55am and continued for about one hour As a result of this operation the rest of the garrison was captured.
 From 323 enemy personnel, present in the garrison . 210 including 40 officers (puppets) were captured. The rest were killed during the two days of operations.
 Mujahideen captured the following items:
 1 213 light weapons of different kinds.
 2 15 heavy weapons including one 76mm Desert Howitzer.