AISSANn? Vcl4. Soli July 13,1908, Page3
!
Editorial
n
J
The uncompromising attitude of the Resistance towards the puppet regime is the result of tea years performance of the Communists as the vanguard of invading forlege force. Part of the present complication is the result of a one-sided Geneva accord drafted by Mr, Cordovez in which a nation who gave enormous sacrifices was ignored.
Despite the possible good intentions of Mr. Cordovez the Afghans do not find themselves is a position to expect anything good from an arrangement which professed a hand of murderers in Kabul as £h© legitimate gover nmosn of Afghanistan,
As far as the Soviets and their puppet regime are concerned they will welcome Mr. Cordovez s Idea because it suits their policies of National Reconciliation and & coalition government. They have been parties to the Geneva accords and support to Mr, Cordovez s present mission suites their politics! game. But in no way are the Communists ready to agree with an arrangement which will take from them the dominating role they are trying to preserve for themselves,
Mr, Cordoveg tried to highlight H% meeting with Afghan Mujahideen leaders based in Iran, Although we do not knew exactly what went on in that meeting but we knew that, all Afghans are united in refecting any deal with the puppet regime,
The historical mistake of excluding the Afghan Resistance from the Geneva accord has killed any chance of a political solution to the present crisis in Afghanistan,
The only option that remains is the armed confrontation which will end the Communist regime, and the fall of the puppet regime will mark the beginning of a political process which will pave the road for the formation of a stable government in a liberated Afghanistan.
290innocents become victim of US missiles
THE shooting down of m Iranian civilian airplane by the US forces stationed in the Gulf was a great tragedy. In this incident 290 innocent people from different countries were killed.
This incident could be compared to the shooting down of & Libyan airliner by Israel over Sinai and the shooting <krwn of Korean civilian air craft by the Russians.
The Americans' explanation can not change the fact that they are responsible for the deaths of so many people. Neither the political differences vith the Islamic Republic nor the military sbxnr between the US forces and Iran can in any toy decrease the scale of the crime that has been committed.
Jaoii'at condemns the shooting down of the Iranian airliner and condoles wh ail those who lost their family members in this tragic incident.
Mujahideen
computerize
organizational
works
IN a constant bid to organise their work better the Mujahideen have decided to make use of computers in the battlefields.
Last year when Baud, an Afghan refugee living in France, met Commander Masood. the idea of using computers in organizational work was discussed.
Baud went back to France and with the help of some experts chose the right-equipment and the suitable program. He wit! be the first computer operator in the liberated areas of Afghanistan and his computer will be the first ever used by the Mujahideen,
Now that the war has developed to an advanced stage and a large area is organized by a single commander, easy access to information Is vital for further improving the organizational effeciency of the Resistance.
The information stored in the computer could help the Mujahideen plan operations much faster and can keep track of the arms and ammunition they have stored.
Besides military use the computer could be used to store data that is used in planning economic, health and educational projects.
This development goes against the generally held concept about the Mujahideen who are described by the Western press as primitive and ] disorganized.	!
The war in Afghanistan has j introduced changes in the way of thinking of the people. The same way that the people want & new political system, they also like tc> see roads built, hospitals opened and schools started and use modem technology to improve their living conditions,