AFGHANews Vol 5, No 24, December IS, 1989, page©
MUJAHIDEEN LOSE SUPPORTER
Shaikh Abdullah Ezam killed by bomb blast in Peshawar
He made several trips to Afghanistan to get first-hand information about the situation. He tried to bring unity among the Mujahideen. If his efforts were not successful in bringing total unity among the Mujahideen, they nevertheless reduced tensions and helped avert broadening the disagreements among different groups.
Abdullah Ezam was a sociable person. He was a teacher by nature and always tried to correct his companions in the best possible way. He always carried a book, and most of time was reading the Holy Quran.
His death shocked the Mujahideen and he was named a Martyr of Afghan Jehad. It is not know who killed him, but the Kabul regime's secret police is suspect.	-
An Afghan who travelled with him to the North said Abdullah Ezam liked to befriend and talk to local Ulama. This contradicts the general impression in some western circles that he was promoting what are termed Wahabi viewpoints.
Shaikh Abdullah Ezam was a capable writer and speaker. He used these abilities to support Jehad.
He spoke English as his second language, the first being Arabic. Different Mujahideen organization held memorial meetings to pray for the soul of Abdullah Ezam and his two sons.
He directed the Office of Services, an organization, funded by Muslim donors to support Jehad.
Abdullah Ezam will be remembered for his services to Jehad. May his soul rest in peace with the others who died to protect Islam from the onslaught of Godless communists.
Dr. Abdullah Ezam, an Arab scholar who strongly supported the Afghan Mujahideen, was killed in a bomb explosion along with his two sons in Peshawar on November 24.
He was on his way to a mosque when a powerful bomb, detonated by a remote-control device, killed him and his two sons, Muhammad, 24, and Ibrahim,13.
Abdullah Ezam was a Palestinian who supported the Afghan cause by pen and financial aid.
He was bom in 1941 in Palestine, and after completing primary school there went to the Damascus Faculty of Islamic Law. In 1967, he went to A1 Azhar University and in 1973 got his Ph.D. in Islamic jurisprudence.
From 1973 till 1980, he taught on the Islamic Faculty of Jordan University, and in 1981 became a professor of Malik Abdul Aziz University in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
Since he was eager to be close to the Mujahideen who fought Jehad against the Godless communists, he became a teacher at the International Islamic University in Islamabad.
He wrote many books and articles to defend the Mujahideen cause. His books and articles played a vital role in introducing their struggle to Muslims throughout the Middle-East and the rest of the world.
According to people who know him, Abdullah Ezam learned a lot from die Afghan Jehad. At die start, he approached the issue in an emotional way and had preferences among the Mujahideen parties. This was due to his reliance on some Mujahideen leaders. As the time passed, he corrected his mistakes and expanded his relationship with other Mujahideen parties and commandos.
He was always courageous enough to admit his mistakes and correct them as soon as he realized them.
He was a broad-minded scholar. He urged Arab volunteers entering Afghanistan for humanitarian services or to report on the war to respect the costumes of the people, and to perform their prayers according to Hanafite school of thought which most Afghans follow. He was so strict in this issue that some young Arabs criticized him. To him, service for Islam and victory for the Mujahideen were the supreme objectives.
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
if**
A three doesn't move unless there is wind.
Meaning: Where there is smoke there is fire, or every effect has a cause.
*
A river is not contaminated by having a dog drink from it.
Meaning: One of good character is pure despite criticism.
A tilted load won't reach its destinations.
Meaning: Honesty is the best policy.
*#*###
mmmm
ilfcifc
*