AFGHANews Vol6, No 17, September 1,1990, page ©
Wisdom of ^
xz
A Tyrant cannot escape
It is said that a tyrant used to force the poor to sell firewood at much less than its market price and then would gi ve it to his rich friends. A charismatic holy man passing by exclaimed: " You are a snake poisoning everything you see; you are a screech owl - wherever you perch is cursed! Though you can get away with this tyranny with us, God the Knower of Secrets see's all you do. Do not oppress the people of this land or else their prayers will reach the highest heaven."
The tyrant was none too pleased at these words; he glared and turned away pretending not to notice the holy man.
One night the kitchen fire spread to his store of firewood and then to the whole house. Everything burned, and the tyrant was thrown from his bed of soft down on to a bed of burning ashes. As he was saying to his friends: " I can't think where this fire came from! " the holy man happened to pass by : " The heartburning sighs of the poor whom you oppressed, that's where the fire came from!" he said.
Desperate cat fights leopard
When Hormuz was crowned king, he imprisoned his father's ministers. He was asked:" What crime did they commit deserving such punishment?" "None," he answered. " But I saw that they were excessively afraid of me and did not fully trust my word. I was afraid that to save their skin they would have me assassinated. So I followed the advice of the sages who said: " Fear him who fears you, though he be a hundred times weaker. Look how the cat in desperation claws out the leopard’s eyes. The snake bites the peasant's heel for fear that the heel will bruise his head."”
Zahir Shah opens office in Rome
A close associate of Zahir Shah has said that the former king is going to open an office in Rome to promote political work he announced some weeks ago.
Afghan Networker, a paper published by some Afghans in the U.S.A, has reported that the US will provide $15 million to the former king to intensify his political activities. The paper says it has got the information from a source close to the Congress.
The US Government sent its envoy to the Afgfcui Resistance,- Peter Tomsed, to Rome some weeks ago to. meet the former king. The US Government considers the former king part of the Afghan Resistance.
Zahir Shah has been living in exile since 1973 when he was deposed by his cousin and brother-in-law. Prince Daud, in a bloodless coup.
Zahir who remained silent during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, has intensified his political activities to return to power as a neutral figure. The Soviets, as well as Americans, have been in contact with him and he is be-
ing encouraged to take a more active role.
Some weeks ago he announced initiating a program to unite all the segments of Afghan society. The former king has refused to support the Mujahideen efforts for the creation of a broad-based government
AFGHAN PROVERBS
dl j jl Juki
JuJj fjjL
I've never; seen anyone go astray who followed along the right way.
Meaning: You'll never go wrong by doing right.
4&L
A liar is forgetful.
Meaning: A dishonest person can't remember to be consistent
4J	*1 Jo 4j»
Who calls himself a Khan is not a Khan.
Meaning: Self-praise is no praise.
He who praises himself befouls	-
himself.
Italian proverb

What you see in your self is what you see in the world.
Meaning: The soul is the mirror of the world.