                            RFOKflli tOS UOL.Iil, )K),23,        1/t2/198?,PfiGE ?
    Mr. pan uni described the political and military achievements of the SCN so far and added, "the same way that the SON has captured four major garrisons of the enemy in a year, if each of the seven Mujahideen organizations do the same on the basis of positive competition, at least 28 enemy garrisons will he captured in a year This will totally change the war situation in Afghanistan in favour of ihe Mujahideen "
    The conference, which was held in Samkani next 10 Jamiat s Military Committee, ended at around 130 p m with a prayer by Mafchdoom Shafi (Head of J LA's Judiciary
    Committee).
                       HOW MUJAHIDEEN RECOGNIZED A DEFECTING KGB AGENT
    A KGB agent who had planned to penetrate Radio Liberty was recognized by *
    Mujahideen in Panjshir.
                j According to Mujahideen sources, a 22-year old Ukrainian soldier on the instruction of .
I the KGB defected to the Mujahideen along with his AK 74 in Salang in 1%4 His mission j was to encourage Mujahideen to take him to Pakistan and then seek political asylum in ! West Germany. Once there, ho wouid have tried to work in Radio Liberty in order to collect information about its personnel and operations. According to his own statements, the- agent would have been taken to Russia by Soviet agents at the end of his mission. He looked forward u> marrying bis girlfriend, getting * good job and receiving a handsome amount of money upon his return to Russia
    The agent was called Nooruliah by the Mujahideen during his stay with them According to Lashkar Khan a member of the Prosecution Office of Panjshir Front, Nooruliah confessed that he had worked for a year m Sbceodand Airbase (Western Afghanistan, near Herat) before being assigned lo his mission as a defector In Sheendand he used to intercept the Communication of the Iranian authorities through special equipment He had been trained by KGB specialists not only in the field of spying but also in karate,judi?„aud other menial am According to Lashkar Khan, the agent's hands sacked nails most probably polled out in practice-tortures.
    According to Gui Agha a Panjsliiri Mujahid unlike many other Russian POWs, Nooruliah knew Pushto and Cart. wa* familiar with Afghanistan's geography and had memorized some Suras (Chapters of the Holy Quran) After hjs arrest he confessed that he had taken a six months course about Afghanistan in Termez (a city on the Russian-Afghanistan border) before coming to the country
    Eng Atiqullah. the (hen head of Aunt base of Salang (where Nooruliah first defected),
    explained his defection process as the following
    Nooruliah came from Gahwara San j post, which was built by the Russians in Salang, in a truck, to the Mujahideen base and said he wanted to defect. He said his mother was Tadzhik and his father was Ukrainian His father was a prominent engineer Nooruliah sdocument showed he was a lankist In regard to the cause of his defection,
    No nullah said he had sold some gasoline and the authorities had learned about it He was afraid he would get a severe punishment
    Atiquilah added that the Russians knew well that ihe Mujahideen of Panjshir treat Russian POWs very’ kindly The KGB wanted to misuse this policy Nooruiiah spent eight months in Saiaag and then was sent to Panjshir He stayed another 16 months there along with other Russian POWs. After the discovery of his connection to the KGB, he was imprisoned.
    Abdul Basir a close friend of Commander Masood , was asked how Mujahideen knew Nooruliah was not a genuine defector rather a KGB spy He replied that first of all his behavior had made Mujahideen suspicious of him He was a handsome young man and seemed to be making an ef fort to attract Mujahideen to himself and encourage them to commit immoral acts He slept, for example nude at night He was scolded for this