ftFGHfiNewa i?cl d, Uo April 1J98B, P36E 2
1
News
from the battlefields
V____    -  ■■  .              .  ..-                           /
HERAT
  MUJAHIDEEN from Jami'at killed ten soldiers and took prisoner five others in an area five kilometers north, of Ghooryan district.
  The attack, conducted by Sayed Ahmad Gurg, wes launched against a supply convoy of Communist forces on Eebruary 15- A Russian-made jeep was destroyed, and a motorcycle and eight Kaiashinkov rifles were seized.
  In another operation carried out against the enemy posts in the Vestern part of the city of Herat, 20 enemy soldiers were either killed or ’’sounded. Three Mujahideen were also killed in the operation which was launched on January 20.
NANGERHAR
   MUJAHIDEEN from Jamiat killed seven communist soldiers and ’wounded eight others -when they raided the 66th border force of the Kabul regime in Lai Poor sub-district on Eebruary 26.
  Three Mujahideen -were killed in the operation.
PER WAR
  SIX DR A soldiers ’were killed and four ethers taken prisoner by the Mujahideen from Jamiat in Bagram district in an attack against the enemy security post on February 7. Seven Kaiashinkov rifles ’were seized from the post.
  In a separate attack. Mujahideen destroyed 3 tanks and 2 trucks and killed or ’wounded five soldiers. The attack was carried out against an enemy supply convoy on the Slang highway on February 2.
BALKH
   SEVEN soldiers were cap-hired and 2 others were lulled when the Mujahideen attacked a DRA post in Tangi Soorab area near Meear city on January 28.
  Twelve Kalashmkove, one light machinegun, one R-109
communication set and one pair of field binoculars were seized
from the post.
The Mujahideen lost one man.
  A bomb planted by the
Mujahideen destroyed six trucks loaded with ammunition inside Mazar city on January 2S. The details ere not available but it is believed that casualties on the enemy side were heavy.
    THE TJN reporter «m
| Human          rights
i situation.         in
! Afghanistan has | called for the I withdrawal of soviet ■ I troops and formation j of a broad-based j government         in
! Afghanistan        to
  enable refugees to return to their country.
         Vhile visiting Pakistan, Dr. Felix Ermacora talked to many refugees. The refugees told him they were eager to return to Afghanistan but they would only do so after the Soviet forces have withdrawn and a government         is
  established which they can. trust.
    The UN Commission on Human Rights passed a resolution asking the Kabul regime to take-proper measures against violation of human right. Twenty nine countries voted for the resolution while seven others, including Soviet Union and India, opposed it.
     In his annual report. Dr. Ermacora mentioned receiving reports of cases of torture and killing in the areas under the control of the regime.
 i