Vol 6, No 17	September	1,1990
Moscow's aid to Najibullah increased
The Soviet Union has ageed to increase its food and fuel assistance to the Kabul regime, agencies reported. ' •
The Soviet Union is giving 230,000 tons of grains and 110,000 tons of aviation fuel to Kabul regime during the current year. The Kabul re-. gime's request for an additional 100,000 tons of grains and 50,000 tons of aviation fuel is under study of theSoviet authorities.
A Soviet official said his government has also agreed to give $300 million financial aid to the Kabul regime once the quantity of the Soviet debt on the regime is determined.
The two sides have discussed the possibility of a resumption of the exportation of natural gas to the Soviet Union. Gas exports might be resumed at the beginning of 1991.
The export of natural gas to the Soviet Union was cut when the Soviet Union withdrew
Mujahideen score victories in Salang and Badghis
The Mujahideen of Jami'at have scored three major victories in the past two weeks.
•More than 2,000 armed militiamen joined the Mujahideen in Badghis. Commander Ismail Khan is in Badghis to organize an attack oh Qala-i-Naw, the provincial capital of Badghis.
The defection of two tribal battalians has improved the Mujahideen position in that province and has increased the chances of their success.
•More than 100 tanks and trucks were destroyed and large number of enemy troops were killed in a series of coordinated attacks launched on August 11. The Salang highway was blocked for at least nine days.
•The Mujahideen from Jami'at drove out Sayyed Mansoor's militias from Aajar and Ashraf Valleys of Bamyan Province. Sayyed Mansoor is the head of the Ismailia community in Afghanistan. His men provide security along the Salang highway north of the Hindukush.
^	Read the full	story	on	page	2.	^
RussianMPopposes
arms
its troops from Afghanistan in February 1988.
The resumption the gas exports will bring the Kabul regime about $400 million each year.
Natural gas is taken from wells in Jawzjan Province through a 110 kilometers long pipeline to Soviet Union. A Kabul regime minister said the pipeline is in good shape. He said the regime needed the assistance of Soviet advisors to resume export.
It is believed that the Soviet Union paid much less for the Afghan gas than the world market price. The measuring equipment for the export of gas is located inside Soviet territory, beyond the reach of Afghans.
The regime Minister said no agreement has been reached about the price and type of payment forthe gas exported.
Gas exploration started in the North during the time of King Zahir Shah. The Soviet Union put pressure on the Afghan government to use
and gas. The Soviets did not allow any othe^ for-
ered it a threat totheir security. The Zahir Shah government also signed a deal with the Soviets to
A five member Russian delegation called on Prof. Rabbani, leader of Jami'at Islami: Afghanistan at "JIA office in Peshawar on August 1. The delegation consisted of three mothers and one father of the Russian soldiers missing in Afghanistan. Aiona Andronov, a-journalist and member of the Russian Federation's Parliament was also included in the delegation.
Emilia Zukova, the mother of one of the missing soldiers, asked Prof. Rabbani to provide information about the missing soldiers and arrange a meeting-with them.
Andronov said he was sorry to ask for the Mujahideen's mercy while his government was still helping the Kabul regime to continue ihe war in Afghanistan. He noted that while the East Europeans had secured their rights for self-determination, die Afghans were still denied theirs. "We have committed many crimes. It is not easy to forget, " he said '
Andronov claimed, to represent Boris Yeltsin, President of the Russian Federation. He said Yeltsin was in favor of ending the war in Afghanistan and wanted the supply of arms to the Kabul regime to be stopped.
Prof. Rabbani sympathized with the families of the missing soldiers. He told the parents that he understood the feelings of die families. He noted however, that the issue oif POWs can only be solved as part of a comprehensive solution to die Afghanistan problem.
He asked the families of the missing soldiers and the rest of the Russian people to exert pressure on the Soviet Government to stop interference in Afghanistan. Peace in Afghanistan will benefit both Afghans
and Soviets.
Andronov is a prominent Russian journalist who covered the Afghanistan war from die Russian side. Last March he was elected as a member of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian Federation. He . gave an interview to Subhe Pairozi, a paper published by the AIG. Here are some of his views:
Q. What is your view on the present reforms in the USSR?
A. Great political changes have taken place in the USSR, but theSoviet Afghan policy has not changed. We still supply the Kabul regime with weapons which are used for killing and destruction, Yeltsin wants, to change'this. He wants to stop the supply of weapons to Kabul from the Russian Federation. If the Mujahideen cooperate with him and announce that they will release the Russian POWs in return for cutting the supply of weapons by Moscow to the Kabul regime, Yeltsin could bring more pressure on the Soviet Government to stop providing assistance to the Kabul regime. If they send a delegation to Moscow to speak on TV and ihe press and tell the Russians to stop sending military aid to the Kabul regime; whether Gorbachev likes it or not, whether he is sincere or not; he will be forced to stop sending military supplies to Kabul. Russians do not like war. The war must stop in Afghanistan. The continuation of killing innocent Afghans with Russian weapons is a crime. The Russian people are not evil people. So it is time to establish a new relationship.
Q. Do the Russian maiss media reflect the crimes that die USSR have committed
Turn to last page