Vol 8, No 17	September	1,1992
Ceasefire agreement silences Kabul guns
After a month of fighting, killing 25 people and injuring 50 bardment The people may have mis-during which thousands of citi- others.	givings about the government, but they
zens of Kabul were killed or Gulbuddin's artillerymen - Khalqi proved unwilling to replace it with a wounded and tens Of thou- officers from the fallen communist re- Hezb-Khalq coalition whose thirst for sands Others took refuge in the gime - targeted residential areas, em- power had killed and hurt thousands tif provinces or outside the coun- bassies, fuel depots and hospitals with innocents.
try, a ceasefire was announced shells and rockets.	Gulbuddin’s	efforts	to	form	a	coali-
at‘12:00 noon on August 29, Hezb launched its last infantry as- tion with other Mujahideen parties ' The ceasefire was the result of sault on Kabul on August 25 from the against the government failed. His rhet-mediation by the commanders direction of Pul-i-Charkhi. After three one against "militia" and "remnants of of Jalalabad and peace efforts hours of fierce fighting, this attack was the communist elements" in Kabul of the government of Pakistan, repulsed, like all their previous efforts failed to rally people around him. He
According to the ceasefire agree- to advance on the ground.	tried desperately to open a front from
meat, Hezb forces are to withdraw Hezb's communist artillery units the North, but the Hezb commanders from their positions around the capi- were well-disciplined and organized, from Shortiali by and large refused to tal and the Mujahideen of other par- but their ground troops showed little carry out his orders. Some of his fol-ties from six neighboring provinces persistence or fighting spirit ” lowers fiipd rockets into Charikar, the will'be deployed in their positions. The government forces, which had provincial capital of Pafwan 50 kilome-Under the terms of the agreement, been caught by surprise at the start of ters north of Kabul, to provoke a reac-Hezb will purge the communists of battle, greatly improved their perfor- don. But the government forces did not Khalq faction and militias that have mance through on-the-job training. In respond in kind, joined it and the government will im- particular, coordination between Part of Hekmatyar’s strategy was plement all the previous decisions of ground forces and artillery units im- to isolate the Islamic government inter-the Leadership Council in regard to proved dramatically by the end of the nationally. To achieve this, he fired the security in Kabul. A commission fighting. The air force also played an rockets into the diplomatic enclave of of commanders and religious schol- outstanding role in thwarting Wazir Akbar Khan and the Russia em-ars will be formed to determine Gulbuddin's offensive. The Mujahideen bassy in southern Kabul. Two Russians which side started the war.	defending Kabul fought bravely and L- were killed Mid three were wounded.
The mediation efforts were initiat- captured many strategic points from The Bulgarian ambassador was also -ed in Peshawar by Mawlawi Nabi Hezb in and around Chelsetoon.	wounded in an attack. Two Afghan UN
Mohammadi and Mawlawi Khalis one Though Hekmatyar had prepared workers were killed, as were two week after the start of the war. In the for the offensive for three months, the Afghan employees of the French meantime, the government of Pakistan government had wrongly believed that embassy.
called on the Mujahideen to end hostili- such an attack was unlikely. When it These, attacks prompted what one ties. A group of commanders from was launched, the government was not diplomat, whose mission stayed open, Jalalabad, headed by Engineer fully prepared.	bluntly referred to as "a panic." The
Mahmood from Khalis1 party and The government’s failure to pro- embassies of France, Italy* Russia and Shomali Khan, a commander of NIFA, vide security for the people of Kabul, most other missions closed. Those visited Kabul to persuade the two sides infighting between Hezb Wahdat and which remained reduced their staffs, to agree on a ceasefire. A Pakistani Prof. Sayyafs Ittihad faction, and Hezb .All non-Afghan UN personnel fled, peace delegation, headed by Foreign efforts to buy off local commanders and UN operations in Kabul were sus-Minister Mohammad Siddiq Kanju, vis- around Kabul had made Hikmatyar pended. Most left by road to the border ited Kabul for the same reason.	hopeful of victory. He assumed the town of Termiz, and then were flown to
Hezb's criminal attacks continued people would turn their backs against their countries. Others left via till the last moment. Fifteen minutes be- the government as soon as the offensive Jalalabad.
fore the ceasefire was to take effect, began.	The	Russians wanted to evacuate
Hezb fired dozens of rockets into a resi-	But the ordinary people of Kabul.
dential area in Khair Khana district, were the main victims of Hezb’s bom- 99*	To	p<lgC	(6)