AFGHANews Vol 7, No 23, December 1,1991, page
lllii*"11”1
iihe Battlefields
' Larghan area, close to the provincial capital Aibak, left three dead and many wounded. Commander Mawlawi Mohammad Zahir reported. Several vehicles were set on fire in the infighting. Old revalries between the head of militiamen and KHAD of officers caused the clash.
Exploiting the situation the Mujahideen of Jami't captured five KHAD agents and seized one ZPU ma-chinegun, eight Kalashnikov rifles, one wireless set and some ammunition.
Kunduz Province
Kandahar Province
•The Mujahideen of Jami'at under the command of Fida Mohammad attacked Kandahar airport on November 6, destroying one transport plane and igniting an ammunition dump. The Mujahideen used ground-to-ground rockets in the attack.
•The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked tlie enemy security belt around the airport on November 2, destroying one post and blowing up one tank and one truck. The Mujahideen seized three PK machineguns, four RPG rocket launchers and one motorcycle.
Herat Province
•The Mujahideen killed two enemy soldiers and injured four in the Quruq area of Zindajan on November 1. The Mujahideen used heavy weapons in the attack.
•The Mujahideen killed four enemy soldiers and captured one in Qala-i-Naw of Zindajan on November 4.
•The Mujahideen from Jami'at killed one soldier, injured another and destroyed one truck when they ambushed an enemy convoy in the Kamar Qulagh area on the Herat-Torghoondi road on November 7, Commander Ismail Khan reported.
•The Mujahideen liberated Karu and Kalmee villages in Push toon Zarghoon District on November 7, seizing 30 Kalashnikov rifles, one mortar, four radio sets and one ZPU machinegun.
•One Mujahid was killed and another was injured in a landmine explosion southeast of Zindajan on November 8.
•The Mujahideen of Jami'at destroyed four enemy security posts southwest of Zindajan on November 8 and 9. No information was available about the casualties of the enemy.
•The Mujahideen ambushed an en-
emy column in the Khush Rubat area on November 9, destroying one tank and killing its occupants.
•The Mujahideen destroyed five tanks and killed or wounded a number of enemy soldiers in different parts of Zindajan on November 16. They captured six soldiers and seized one tank, six Kalashnikov rifles and some ammunition.
Balkh Province
Kabul regime attempts to recapture Daulatabad District were frustrated by the Mujahideen of Jami'at The enemy has suffered heavy casualties in the fighting, which began on November 14.
In the first five days of fighting at least 60 enemy troops were killed and dozens of others were injured. The Mujahideen shot down a regime fighter plane .on November 17, which crashed near the historic Bala Hisar fort in Balkh District The Mujahideen had captured Daulatabad District on November 8.
Kabul troops launched a fresh assault from the north on November 21. The enemy captured half the garrison, but were forced to retreat after the Mujahideen launched a counteroffensive on November 23. About 90 enemy soldiers were killed and 150 were injured.
Eighteen Mujahideen, including three commanders - Mohammad Saleem, Khudai Qul and Mateen Shah -- were killed. Fighting continued when this report was filed. The Kabul regime had claimed complete victory in the fighting at one point, but this turned out to be false.
The Kabul regime has deployed a large number of militiamen in addition to regular troops in the battle for Daulatabad.
Samangan Province
KHAD groups clashed with militiamen of Dos tom on November 13 in
The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed six enemy servicemen and injured several of them in Khuja Ghaltan on November 20, Commaner Mohammad Arif Khan reported. They seized nine guns and some ammunition.
The enemy retaliated by artillary bomardment of the villages killing and wounding many people and desroying dozens of houses.
Ghore Province
The Mujahdieen of Jami'at destroyed an enemy security post in Bara Khana, close to the provincial captial, and seized seven PK machineguns, 30 Kalashnikov rifles, one DSchK gun and two PRG rocket launchers on October 31.
Faryab Province
The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed five enemy servicemen and injured 15 in the city of Maimana on October 30, Commander Hafizullah reported. One Mujahid was killed and another injured in the operation.
Captured pilot's trail demanded
A regime pilot responsible for bombing Taliqan has been captured by the Mujahideen in Logar. Hafizullah, whose rank and other background were not available at press time, bombed Taliqan during the summer, killing at least 35 people. Later, the Mujahideen shot down his jet near Baraki Barak in Logar province and captured him. He is now in the custody of commander Qazi Zemaray.
The Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council want the captured pilot to be returned to Taliqan and tried in public for killing civilians.