AFGHANews Vo!5, No 15, August 1,1989, paged
Sad Eid in Ferkhar
From page (6)
2:00 that afternoon (July 10), without food or water nor any medical relief for those injured. Eight men among them were then selected; Engineer Yaqoub, Sadot, two Khandabad Mujahideen, Ghulam Ali and Abdul Ahmad, a driver from Panjshir, Sannaleai Tariq and his brother. The eight men were brought back down to the river under die supervision of Hezb commander Sayyed Fakhruddin. They were led across die bridge to the roadside where the commander ordered thxSarmailem Tariq, a major Ishkamesh commander, and Ins brother be shot while the others watched.
Engineer Yaqouib said that Hezb commander Sayyed Eakhruddm wanted to shoot them but the Hezfci commander of another Maricaz, Babur Shah, objected and positioned his men to prevent further shooting. Dr. Shams along with die two Khanahad commanders Ghulam Ali and Abdul Ahmad were then released while Yaqoub and Sadot were hold under the custody of Babur Shah.
Yaqoub was held for three days during which tune he heard on radio communication established with Eshan Mirza that many of the captured Takhar and Baghlan commanders had been shot Engineer Yaqoub escaptedon July 13 during evening Namaz and made it back to Farichar where he conducted this interview.
The dead bodies of executed Jami'at members, some badly mutilated, have been intermittently left by the roadside at the gorge where they have been picked up and taken to Taliqan Jami’at headquarters for identification and news then relayed to Ahmad Shah Masood. The burned body of Dr. Hussain was found as it floated down the river past Taliqan.
Some of the major Jami'at commanders confirmed dead: Mulla Wadood-head of Taldiar province. Dr. Hussain-vice president of head of administration of Takhar, Sannalem Tariq-head of Ishkamesh, Mawlavi Ezatullah-commander of Seyab, Payenda-commander of Ishkamesh city, Ahmad Padshah-commander of Bangi district, Jan Mohammad-head of administration of Bangi, Naqibullah-education committee delegate, Ustad Shahid-Taliqan intelligence committee.
The ambush and executions present a multitude of problems for Ahmad Shah Masood. First of all, the road from Ferkhar to Taliqan has been effectively dosed, making communications
and transport between the two major urban areas of the northeast, Faizabad and Kunduz, extremely difficult. On the operational level he has lost several of his most gifted commanders in Takhar province who led a combined force of over 3,000 men, and who had accumulated 10 years of war experience as commanders. In addition, Masood Mto has always advocated the importance and necessity of Mujahideen unity, has now to divert his attention previously focusedon the defeat of the Kabul regime and to deal with this uqwecedenied internal provocation.
Note:
&aig Weintraid* is ajrielance writer mainly interested in wr&ng a navel with a factual setting in Afghanistan during the present time period He has been in the general region for the past eight months, including much tone in Pakistan.
He is currently in the2ndmtmthcf what he hopes is a four month stamnt stay in the North.
UN volunteers go to liberated zones
The first United Nations volunteer, a Burmese, to supervise the UN assistance programme in Afghanistan has arrived in Pakistan, VOA reported.
He will supervise transportation and later distribution of food in Afghanistan. Another nine volunteers will make a brief stay in Pakistan before altering Afghanistan.
In the first instance, these volunteers will be deployed in Quetta and Peshawar.
- About one hundred volunteers will work in Afghanistan. Beside Burma, the volunteers to be sent to Afghanistan come from Uganda, Somalia and Thailand. Six officers of the United Nations coming from Britain, Lebanon, Sudan, Liberia, Somalia and Burma, will soon join the volunteers. Twelve volunteers are being selected by the Would Health Organization (WHO) to provide medical facilities in Afghanistan.
These volunteers go to areas controlled by the Mujahideen. The UN has similar activities in Kabul.
Soviet soldiers beat Afghan civilians
The weekly Moscow News earned war stories by Valery Abramov, 30, under the headline, "The whole truth has to be told about this war."
Recounting "incidents that are shameful to recall,” Abramov described how two Afghan prisoners suspected of
his
"We already had people killed and missing. Lost friends...and we tm leashed all our amuuntatrri pain on those two. We beat than all night, with short breaks. I, too tried to beat them as painfully as I conldL ft seemed as if they were to blame for the deal of our soHias: And in the morning, k turned out they were peaceful inhabt-
Jami'at gives sewing machines to needy women
Jamixs leader mstntiutoa machines to 52 refugee women who had completed a tailoring class organized by Jami’at Jslami on June 22.
In die meeting organized an this occasion professor Rabboni and one of the women's belonging to the Women's Branch of Jami'at spoke about the nde of women in an Islamic society.
PTOf. Rabfoam praised the efforts of the Jami’at Woman's Branch in organizing the tailoring class which was aimed at helping needy families.
Ismail Khan condemns massacre
Commander hiamaii Khan of
Herat has condemned killing of 30 Jamfat commanders and MujalndBea by Hezb (ffikmatyar) and has called a barbaric act. He has ashed for the trial of those involved.
Road accidents killed 47,000 Russians last year
23 May, Major General Vakriyan Ishotin of the MVD revealed that 47,000 died and 300,000 were injured in road accidents in the Soviet Union last year. New traffic regulations provides for tougher punishments fora numberof offences.