1 CHTKg MJUg or AXJltOetTY ailah]
  AFGHANnews
                          A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264. PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                                         VOL. Ill, NO. 12, 15/6/1987.
    ISLAMIC MOVEMENT IN AFGHANISTAN: effective and reliable
    The decade of the 1960s is of great significance in the political life of Afghanistan and % in developments in that country in recent years. The 1960s was the decade of Zahir shah’s “experiment ■with democracy*. It was the decade of hot political debates on Kabul University campus end in high schools. It eras the decade of the formation of political parties and movements. It was the decade to which the current Islamic movement traces its roots.
      The Afghan people especially the intellectuals, had been concerned with corruption, economic backwardness and injustice that beset the monarchy regime for a long time. Vhen they were given the chance, they started discussing the causes of those problems and the ways to solve them. Some believed the Soviet style communism to be a solution, some others prpposed the Chinese style. The nationalists did not have any clear ideas and borrowed thoughts from here and there. The monarchy was so bankrupt that no one defended it as being able to take core of the problems.
     In the late 1960s a new movement emerged which surprised everybody. The seed of the movement was planted by a number of Kabul University Professors in the late 1950s. The active members of the movement mostly consisted of students from families who studied natural sciences and engineering in Kabul University or other institutes of higher education.
     This movement rejected both the corrupt regime and the ideologies imported from the Vest. It considered the application of Islam in Afghan people's private and public life as the solution for the problems the country faced. It believed Islam to be a dynamic Deen (religion, way of life, ideology) which provided -the values, principles and , guidelines on the basis of which a progressive, moral, and just society could be built.
     The new movement was appealing to the Afghan people in general. To educated youth, the background of the members of the movement showed that their opposition to communism was not due to their vested interest, nor was their adherence to religion due to their reactionary attitude and their old fashionedness. Other stratas of the society to whom religion was of great importance listened with sympathy to those who were arguing that their religion could take care of their problems.
     Vhen Daud proclaimed his republic, the members of the Islamic movement were the first to sense the danger and to see the communist's hidden hand in the coup detat. Of course they were happy that the reign of Zahir Shah's weak and corrupt regime had ended. But they also knew that the communists were exploiting the situation for their own benefit.
     From the very beginning they worked hard to avoid a disaster, that is. communist take over of the government. They were not successful, however, due to a lack of experience as well as due to people’s ignorance of the true nature of Daud's regime. The abortive uprising in five provinces in the summer of 1975 showed the Islamic movement’s disgust of Daud's government and its endeavors to do something about it.
     Daud who had nurtured the 'communists became a victim of their plots and was eliminated with all his family members. The communists came to power and were so proud of their victory that, they did not care to disguise their true nature. The people