HFGHflH HEIIS UOL.il I, HO.3,        1/2/   196?     PAGE  6
 The Refugees shoved their determination to continue their struggle till total freedom of Afghanistan is achieved.
 During the Professor’s stay, Jamhory Islami Daily' made an interview with him which was published on December 30,19 86. The paper went against all journalistic norms in distorting the interview, especially the points concerning the Alliance delegation's trip to America’, to fit the anti-American climate in Iran.
 jami’at-e-Islami office in Tehran protested to the paper by sending a letter to the editor. We think it is the work of some hidden trouble makers who want to create misunderstanding between the people of Afghanistan and Iran.
 Once again we clearify our position that our political steps in serving our Islamic cause are calculated moves which are decided in the light of Islamic principles and the interest of the people of Afghanistan. The American trip by Prof. Rabbani was decided on the above principles. It was a normal political step which every sound person felt was needed. The paper have every right not to agree with our views but changing the. contents of an interview is an immoral act to commit. We will continue to do what we think would serve our cause within the laws of Allah.
                                     PROTEST AGAINST OCCUPATION
 A 43 years old man from Rotterdam of Holland by the name of N de Oude set ablaze a Soviet-car in front of the Soviet Embassy in Haague to protest the 7th sad anniversary of the occupation of Afghanistan.
 Oude is the writer of a book about his trip to Afghanistan which took place two years ago. When asked about the purpose of burning the car he said, "I set it on fire out of protest against already seven years lasting reign of terror by the Soviets in Afghanistan”.
 He was arrested by the police and spent four days in jail . He will face trial soon, His reaction about his trial was, “I don't care to be punished for this deed, as I think that the aim of action was achieved, namely get publicity for the Afghan cause’’.
 The same man already had protested against Soviet occupation by illustration on his car by means of wooden painted panels depicting scenes of the war in Afghanistan He got a lot of publicity for that loo.
 It should be added that support for the Afghan cause is growing amongst the Dutch people. On 27th December a big rally was held to protest the seventh anniversary of the occupation of Afghanistan in which besides Afghans and Netherlander a great number of Turks and Morocans living there had taken part,
                                         EXCHANGE OF PRISONERS
 January 7, 1987, Mujahideen from Jami'at in Mazar-e-Sharif exchanged a Soviet prisoner with eleven Mujahideen who were serving prison terms in the puppet Jails.
                            SOVIETS MUST HAVE BEEN DISAPPOINTED
According to Mujahideen sources the puppet regime launched a campaign in the government departments to sell, to the officials, the idea of the ceasefire and reconciliation program. Almost all the officials were demanding the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan
                 This fact was confirmed by the journalists who were airlifted from Moscow to Kabul to