AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page ©
The historic victory!
From page (1)
flee the countiy. General Yaqoubi, the Minister of KHAD, regime's secret police, committed suicide.
Hatif, one of the four deputies of Najib, became the Interim President and the security of Kabul was given to four army generals: Nabi Azimi, Momen, Baba Jan and Asif Delawar.
Wakil flew to Charikar to discuss the situation with Masood. It seemed that officials of the regime were ready to hand over power to the Mujahideen in return for their personal safety.
Masood sent messages to the Mujahideen leaders in Peshawar and encouraged them to reach an agreement on a transitional government as soon as possible. He also sent messages to the Prime Minister and President of Pakistan and assured them of his cooperation with a Mujahideen government
On February 23, six major Mujahideen parties agreed on a formula for formation of a commission for transfer of power and a transitional government
Victories of the supervisory council north of Kabul provoked a negative reaction from Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar. While Hezb claimed to be leading the war against the regime, in fact it created problem for the Mujahideen attacking Charikar and Bagram Air Base.
Hezb suffered a psychological setback when it became known that its claims of victories were highly exaggerated. Nowhere in Afghanistan, Hezb could score an outright victory. For a leader like Hikmatyar who claimed to lead the largest and the most effective party of all the Mujahideen, this development was not easy to digest.
inflammatory statements issued by Hezb alleged that an international conspiracy was involved to keep Hezb out of power. It alleged Iran and Masood were conspiring to keep communists in power or dismember the country on ethnic and linguistic lines.
While other leaders were discussing formation of a transitional government, Hikmatyar began to mobilize a arge force from among the refugees in the camps and students of schools. It was becoming clear that he was bent on some sort of military adventure.
Masood contacted Hikmatyar by radio and tried to convince him that attack on the city was not wise. Masood told Hikmatyar that since the Kabul regime was ready to step down, there was no need to attack the city. He ad-
vised him to work with other leaders on the formation of an interim administration. Hikmatyar argued that he wanted to enter the city as a liberator not through political negotiations.
When a battalion of police, stationed in Logar, defected to Hezb through its Khalqi connections on April 22, it opened a corridor for military action of the party on Kabul, bn the meantime, General Rafai, the Vice President of the regime and a leader of Khalq faction of the regime, flew to Logar to meet Hikmatyar. Developments showed that Rafai's visit was aimed at coordination of efforts between Hezb and Khalqi officers of the regime.
Hikmatyar gave the Afghan army in Kabul an ultimatum that if it did not surrender by April 26, Hezb would attack the capital.
In the morning of April 25, a group of Hezb Mujahideen who had infiltrated into Kabul took control of the Inerior Ministry after being armed by Khalqi officers. Aslam Watanjar and Manoki Mangal were the main plotters. The plan was to take power through coup and let the Hezb Mujahideen enter into the city and declare their government.
The leaders in Peshawar were informed about the situation. They authorized Commander Masood to send his Mujahideen to Kabul and seize control of the city. The order was executed promptly and by afternoon the same day, all strategic locations of the city came under control of the Mujahideen loyal to interim Islamic government.
On April 26 at 7:00 am, an armored column of the regime's police which had defected to Hezb attacked Balahisar Fort, south of the city. The attack was beaten back by troops stationed in the fort Hezb men were also driven out of other positions captured in the city, except the interior ministry.
On April 27, Hezb forces took position on a hill south of the city and attacked housing complex of Macro Rayon and the airport with mortars, rockets and artillery. By the morning of April 28, they were dislodged from their positions.
These clashes which caused loss of life and property spoiled the joy of Afghans over their long-waited victory. With the mediation of Pakistan and Saudi Arabia a ceasefire agreement was signed on April 26. Hezb has conditioned it to purge of the army from former communist officers. Masood has said that with the presence of Hikmatyars' armed men in the city ceasefire cannot be observed.
Fall of Laghman
Fall of Qalat.r----April 21
i|||if Hull
PH of Jafeta&4d.^„.Apra 23^>| vi tffjrmatioii of cbuhaLApril,^ §«
)transfer' of Powtr	April 28 f£? \

Help us publish AFGHANews!
Please send your donations to the following account number:
JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan