AFGHANews Vol7, No 21, November 1,1991, page ©
leaders(!). Smoking opium is not only tion channels repaired and farms culti- we were there. . larmful to their health but has had a vated. This was done without any ass is- There has been no contacts be-catastrophic effect on their economy, tance from UN and other relief agen-. tween the people of the two countries Addicted families spent most of their cies. It is an extremely positive along die bender. The Soviet watchtow-eamings on opium. The Mujahideen development.	ers, manned by KGB soldiers, guarded
are interested to find a solution to this We could not go to Wakhan due to the border. Afghan merchants who problem. During the Soviet occupation, shortage of time but people coming went to the Soviet Union to buy goods Sayyed Mansoor of Kay an, a religious front there said the situation in Wakhan woe taken to Khariq, a city hundred ki-leader of Ismailias and a famous militia was similar to the situation in lometers away from Eshkashim, in cars commander of the Kabul regime, Eshkashim. Some Kirghiz people still with their window glasses painted. The opened a rehabilitation center in bve in Pamir, bordering Pakistan, Soviets did not want the Afghan mer-Eshkashim with the help of the UN but USSR and China. About 2000 people chant to see anything during their jour-due to lack of commitment no progress	them had migrated first to Pakistan ney. It reminded	one merchant,
was made. He also had formed a militia and then to Turkey immediately after Ironically a communist belonging to battalion in the district	the communist coups of 1978. Their Setam Milli faction, of the prison cars
About 50 Sunni families also live leader, Rahman Qul who had a good of the Kabul regime that took detainees in Eshkashim. They have come from reputation, now lives -in Turkey, from one place to another, other parts of Afghanistan and form the Sayyed Najmuddin told me he had con-	The journey back to Pakistan was
elite economic class of the district tacts with the remaining Kirghiz fami- quick. A car brought us to Zebak. After They are doing trade and have bought hes in Pamir. He described them as crossing the river on foot, I rented a land Their houses, clothes and food good Muslims and brave fighters.	donkey to Eskatool. After serving lunch
are better than those of the local peo- We spent the night in a wooden in the former officer's restaurant we ple.They have built a mosque at the building once used to house govern- rented horses to take us to Toop Khana. center of district. They used to enjoy a ment guests. We were told die former We spent the night by the lake and in pn».gtigimig statue before fhp. communist king once had stayed there.	the morning crossed the border into
coup but came under increased pres- After the sunset Eshkashim Pakistan. Chitral Scouts who are re-sure from the local communist officers drowned in total darkness. The Soviet sponsible for the security of border car-after the Soviet occupation. The local border town of Nit was shining from ried out meticulous bodily search of all mmmnnigts considered them as outsid- across the Oxus river. As a freedom of us as if we were entering an airport er and exploiters. They cooperate with fighter, I felt uneasy because our town Something was bothering them, the Mujahideen because liberation of could not compete with the town of the Someone guessed the reason for this the area has relieve them from the pres- enemy in modem facilities. I was told behavior was attempt by some foreign sure of the local communists.	Sayyed Najmuddin had experience a journalist to cross the border into
The UN had promised to provide similar feeling when he spent a few Afghanistan the previous day. They help for the reconstruction of section of nights in Eshkashim when the were reacting to an incident that we road between Eshkashim and Zebak. Mujahideen liberated it He told his were not aware of. Journalists are The local people had built part of the friends that he wanted to build power smuggled into Afghanistan to cover the road but had not received their wages plant and a metal road in Eshkashim so war. Foreign journalists can help in which was supposed to be paid by the diat the local people should not feel in- bringing the news out of Afghanistan UN in the form of wheatThe ferior to the Soviets. While providing and keep the issue alive.
Mujahideen received the wheat and electricity and paved road for this bor- I completed my journey to distributed it among the workers.	der town seems difficult, at least under Badakhshan in two weeks but its good
Eshkashim is connected to current circumstances, it demonstrates memories will be remembered for a Wakhan and Zebak by telephone. The die burning desire of a Mujahideen long time.	(Concluded)
war has replaced telephone with wire- leader to improve the living condition less in many parts of Afghanistan, the bis people so that they can compete same way that planes have replaced positively with their neighbors, cars between major cities. There is	This example disproves the percep-
need for reconstruction of telephone don of some outsiders who look at the system in the liberated areas because it members of the Islamic Movement in is a reliable and cheap mean of Afghanistan as backward people op-communication	posed to social and economic progress.
After the liberation of Eshkashim a Our commanders like Ismail Khan, group of people from Munjan, a valley Masood, Najmuddin and others are in Kuran sub-District, who lived as in- committed to Islam, at the same time ternal refugees under protection of the diey work hard to introduce positive regime, returned to their villages. We changes in every aspect of the life of saw some of them on the way to their dieir people.
homes. These people were the sympa- AT 10 O'clock at night, the Soviet thizers of the government and had es- city of Nit diminished in total darkness, caped from Munjan after the It demonstrated the economic crisis that Mujahideen captured Kuran garrison in the Soviets were facing. They were not 1987. Although the Mujahideen had able to run their generator more than announced amnesty, they refused to re- three hours each night. UN officials turn. From their clothes and belongings sbo reported shortages of fuel on the that they carried one can say that they Soviet side of the border. Few cars were living a miserable life. People could be seen on their road. There was coming from Kuran reported that the a small airport on the Soviet side of the abandoned villages were rebuilt, itriga- border but no plane flew in or out when
PROVINCIAL CAPITAL Faizabad
DISTRICTS
1-	Wakhan
2-	Eshkashiin
3-	Shegnan
4-	Darwaz
5-	Jonn
6-	Keshm
SUB-DISTRICTS
1-	Zebak
2-	Kuran
3-	Khwahan
4-	Shar-i-Buzuig
5-	Bahaiak
6-	Ragh