AFGHANews Vol5, No 21, November 1, 1989, page ©
Regime, Soviet Union have misled world media about situation in Afghanistan
A 50-minute documentary film on Afghanistan shown on BBC Television has painted a disproportionate picture of civilian casualties in the cities, and has drawn incorrect conclusions about the need to continue Jehad.
The first part of the film deals with reasons of the failure of the Mujahideen to defeat the communist regime in Kabul.
According to the film, when the Mujahideen frontal attacks failed, they turned u> random rocketing of the cities, which inflicts losses on the civilian population.
Several scenes of children, old men and women being injured in Kabul and Kandahar are shown.
In order to balance the film the director has tried to address the destruction of villages and killing of civilians by the regime, but the effort is futile: the sight of destroyed villages do not have the same impact as a weeping old woman trained to cry anti-Mujahideen and anti-American slogans.
The film does not put the horrible stories of the present in historic perspective, and gives the false impression that the Mujahideen and their supporters are responsible for what it calls "a purposeless war."
The Soviets' massive arming of the regime is not highlighted in the film, and the regime’s peace slogans are taken seriously.
The film shows the discontent of some Mujahideen about random firing of rockets into the cities, but does not mentioned the reservations most Mujahideen harbor about harming civilians. Without their self-restraint, the Mujahideen would have disrupted city life far more and civilian casualties would have been much higher.
The documentary stresses the controversial role of American weapons have played in prolonging the fighting, but the advice of Peter Thomsen, the American special envoy to the Mujahideen, that regime’s killing of civilians should also be documented, seems reasonable.
Why are the Soviets not blamed for the continuation of war which they started, and now continue to fuel by sending arms to their puppets?
Finally, the film calls the Jehad against the communist regime meaningless, an offensive remark borrowed from Russian diplomats.
The Oslo Hearing on Afghanistan showed that the western media and public have been greatly misled by Soviet and Kabul-regime propaganda. If the Mujahideen do not take proper steps to counter it, they may lose the sympathy of their traditional supporters.
On 23 September 1989, the Afghanistan-Norwegian Committee hosted a Hearing on Afghanistan in Oslo, the capital of Norway. It was the third Hearing of its type, in which a large number of Afghan supporters, journalists who have been in Afghanistan, Afghan specialists, the representatives of some of the humanitarian organizations based in Peshawar or abroad. Mujahideen commanders and representatives of some Afghan political parties have participated.
The Hearing lasted for three days, and covered different areas, such as military, political, economic and social aspects of the Afghan problem.
Two commanders from Kabul, Anwari and Belal, discussed the military situation around Kabul. Both explained why the capital had not fallen. Commander Belal mentioned the lack of a unified command on the Mujahideen side. He felt that time was needed to overcome the problem.
Masood Khalili, a political officer from Jami’at, talked about the political situation in Afghanistan, and the strengths and weakness of the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime in the light of the superpowers' behavior in the post- withdrawal phase.
Dr. Agha Gul and some others talked about reconstruction of free Afghanistan. Three Afghan ladies, including Fatima Gailani, discussed issues regarding the role of women in the future Afghan society.
Mine clearing, medical help, educational assistance and shortage of essential commodities were also covered in detail
Speakers in the Hearing stressed the need for sending humanitarian assistance both to the refugees in the countries neighboring Afghanistan and to the war-affected Afghans inside the country.
The main questions asked by the Westerners in the Hearing were: Why have the Mujahideen not been able to topple the Kabul regime? Why do the Mujahideen fire rockets on the residential areas of poor people? Why do the
Mujahideen not talk to the Kabul regime, which has renounced communism ? Why do Afghans kill each other? Why has the AIG not been able to accomplish anything militarily or politically? Why were the Jami’at commanders killed by Sayed Jamal? Why was there no unity amongst the leaders?, and so forth.
The answers given by the Mujahideen commanders about the military situation were educational for the questioners. The Mujahideen commanders rejected the enemy allegation that they intentionally fired rockets into the residential areas in the cities. They said that some sad incidents in which civilians were hit was attributed to inaccurate weapon systems. The regime military installations were the real target of these attacks.
Surprisingly, most of Western questioners had forgotten to mention how die communist regime took power in 1978. They did not ask why the people of Afghanistan revolted against the communist regime before the Soviet invasion. Nor, why did the Soviets invade Afghanistan? Why were 1.5 million Afghans killed or wounded? Who has planted thousands of mines in Afghanistan? Why did the Soviets destroy 60% of agricultural fields of Afghanistan?.
Najib had become, in the eyes of die Western media or at least those journalists at the Hearing, a reasonable, innocent, rational and religious person, who is concerned about the safety of the civilian population, and is the only guardian of peace in the country.
The Mujahideen present at the panel saw the problem from another angle. They admitted that the Mujahideen had their weak points and were suffering from lack of a proper mechanism to express their views; but did this mean that Najib, should turn into an innocent gentleman overnight because of his propaganda power? They added that there was no difference between Najib's government and his puppet predecessors such as Tandri, Babrak and Amin. The Najib regime has survived mainly on massive Soviet military and economic assistance. Weapons of mass killing, such as Scud missiles, have been given to Najib in great numbers. The Mujahideen attending the Hearing were of the view that Afghans should be allowed to determine their future.