AFGHANews Vol 8, No 23, December 1, 1992, page ©
TVenjoys freedom under Islamic rule
Habibullah Rafai, an Afghan who was described by BBC as an analyst, writer and poet, in an interview with the Pushtu Service of that radio accused Afghan TV of discrimination against Pushtu language. He also claimed that the TV was controlled and used by Jami'at for party propaganda.
Mr. Rafai claimed that Mil Hamza, one of the Vice Prcsidents'Of Afghanistan, * used "harsh words" against the people of Kabul.
He made these observations after watching the TV program for only one night. He admitted that he could not watch the TV programs in the following nights because its transmission were stopped due to rocket attacks by Hezb lslami.
With such titles as "analyst," "writer" and "poet," it is unfair of him to judge the performance of ,TV by one program during a crisis. If he had waited to watch other programs in relatively peaceful times, he might have expressed a more balanced view.
TV in Afghanistan still function by regulations of the previous governments, which gives equal time for both Pushtu and Persian languages. This does not mean that the judgement should be passed at short intervals. One night, Pushtu program might take longer lime than Persian aqd vise versa. "Analysts" should not pass their judgment so quickly.
The accusation that TV is being used for party publicity is not also precise. The Jami’at leader holds the office of president, and according to the tradition of the Afghan TV, the news about the activities of the president is given priority. News about Professor Rabbani is party propaganda.
Afghan journalism ui general, and its TV, and radio programs in particular suffer from generations of dictatorship and other problems of third world countries. President Rabbani has encouraged the journalists to be objective in their reporting, but the media has failed to exploit this opportunity to be more objective, pleasant and precise.
Due to long years of dictatorship, Afghan journalists work extremely cautiously. Mujahid journalists working in TV. and Radio confide that announcers are reluctant to read editorials critical of the government performance.
Afghan medta'men have been taught hard lessons by the communist regime. Mchdi Zafar, a prominent radio newscaster, was executed by the communist regime because he had read
a statement by Daud about the arrest of Taraki and other communist leaders. |
TV and radio programs under Islamic rule have many shortcomings , but one cannot ingnore its pluralistic nature. Coverage is given to news of those parties not actively fighting against the Islamic government The restrictions put on certain programs, such ] as music ana appearance of women newscasters, are the collective decisions of the Leadmhip Council. I Jami’ats position on women newscasters was not in line with that of the Leadership Council, but it must obey 1 the decision of the majority “
The third accusation, tliat the Vice | President used harsh words against the people of Kabul, is absurd comment. Others Listened to the same speech and are at a loss to understand where Rafai got that impression
A good analyst must mention achievements while presenting problems, in order to present a balanced view. Why do Rafai and others like him ignore the decision of Prof Rabbani to o allow all parties to publish their papers in Kabul? Some parties made use of this opportunity, others have chosen to publish their papers from Peshawar.
It is true that publishing papers is not easy in Kabul. This is not because the government is creating the difficulties. Life is tough in Kabul. Some ol these problems j arc created by Hikmatyar’f rocket attacks, which set the state printing press and its paper stores on fire and disrupted the supply of electricity to the city. As a result publication of the papers, including AFGHANews, was delayed.
One should not forget that the country is still regulated by many statutes passed under the communist re gime. Bureaucratic red tape also makes life difficult for people working in the press We had complained about the behavior of the minister of communications in regard to giving a telephone line to AFGHANews. This paper does not have a telephone. A Jami’at paper is facing this problem while the president and defense minister belong to this party . This is just another proof that Jami'at is not abusing state institutions for partisan' purposes.
Afghan writers, ’analysts” and poets should do their homework before leveling accusations against a party which fought against Soviets and had the honor of initialing the fall of the communist regime in Afghanistan.
US for political solution of Afghan issues
The United States on October 3 urged the interim government of Afghanistan under President Rabbani to make the greatest possible effort to revive a broad-based political process, and criticized attempts by individuals and factions to make use of violence to seize power.
TTtc State Department said the United States government has long sought a stable, broad-based government in Afghanistan, achieved through a political process, the return of the Afghan refugees and reconstruction of this war-tom country, and the elimination of narcotics production and trafficking The establishment pf an interim government in Afghanistan in June was a critical first step towards these objectives.
The State Department said the United States docs not favor any Afghan faction. “We support the interim government and oppose the actions of any individuals or factions who would attempt to disrupt the political process and seize power by force.
"The recent savage bombardment of Kabul by forces under the command of Gulbuddin Hikmatyar caused tremendous suffering. These actions, taken in pursuit of personal ambitions, were responsible for the deaths of hundreds of innocent people in Kabul. We condemned these ruthless actions," the statement continued, adding that "We welcomed the implementation of a ceasefire and are pleased that it is holding.”
To provide support for the political process, the United States has already reopened full official tics with the interim government.
President Bush has announced that Washington would seek to liftdiscrimi natory tariff on products from Afghanistan, saying il was no longer considered a Marxist state
The move opens the door to US foreign aid and credits from the US Export-Import Bank.
Peter Tomson, the US special en voy to Afghanistan, has said his gov eminent will open its embassy in Kabul if the ceasefire holds. He said that opening of the foreign embassies is necessary to give aid to the needy Afghans.
Two months ago, several congress men wrote a letter io' President Bush asking him to recognize the Islamic government in Kabul and open the US embassy there.