flFBHPNtEHSVa-.nl, NO. 14, 15/7/ 1907 PACE <\
 Groups), originating from the Solidarity movement , unfurled a banner in. th e. center of Warsaw which called for support for Afghanistan. A number of Polish priests from varioias churches held prayers during December "for the Afghan people who have been struggling for numerous years".
 One monument showing Polish support for Afghanistan lies on a trail m Nuristan. A simple wooden cross with the inscription: "Lech Zondek, Polish Soldier”. Zondek left Poland in 1981 in order to lend assistance to the Afghan resistance, and was killed on July 4, 1985. Another Pole showing his support for the Afghan people's struggle is laced-Adam Winkler who first entered Afghanistan for five months in 1985 and returned once again at the beginning of 1987, “with the agreement of his family ."
                         TURKESTANI CONSCIOUSNESS REMAINS POWERFUL
                                            BY ABDULLAH KWAJA
 First of all I would like to affirm the deep hostility which Turkestani si f-jel toward Moscow. The resistance of an oppressed people can be seen in every sphei a of life, and today, I would like to briefly outline signs of resistance to Soviet Russian ’yl'^iaiusm and Soviet social engineering in Turkestan. The communist Party continue to find it impossible to gain the cooperation'of the Turkestani people in the fields of economics, ideology and culture.
 Consider the economic performance of Turkestan. Moscow has tried to unite Turkestan to Soviet Russia by eliminating all local production which once made Tujl.estan self-sufficient and independent Gosplan outlines productivity targets which res:cable the demands of colonial administrators; deliver cotton, silk, oil and varif-vs natural resources. But the Turkestani* are always resistant, negligent, cud ultimately unfaithful because their union with the Russian communist empire we'1 c: .ruminated by brute force alone. Since Gorbachev's ascent to power, more than. 10,000 local officials in Uzbekistan have been purged
 In the realm of ideology, Moscow's aim to de- Islamicize Turkestan, while appearing to uphold and respect the religion in its dealings with the Islamic world at . vr % leaves the Kremlin pursuing irreconcilable policies and unachievable objective; Basically, the compulsion of communism to destroy any alternative world view faces o Herculean task in destroying Islam in Turkestan,
 This stems from the fact that Islam not only has a long and glorious history in Turkestan, but national identity and Islam are fused in the minds of the Tuikestanis. It cannot be overemphasized that a Turkestani loses his identity, ethnicity, and culture when he dispenses with his religion Therefore, a Turkestani does not oe.i.y if ever forsake his religion. The communist Party has worked constantly to extinguish Turkestani national and religious identity by separating the two. EoLLcvifc tactics involved the division of Turkestan into tribal sub-units and the systematic discrediting of Islam as a so-called "counter-revolutionary force''. But despite these assaults, I an proud to say, Turkestani Muslim consciousness remains powerful. In short, ‘he national and religious identity of Turkestani; remains intact and largely uncom-remised by Sovietization.
 Madrassas or schools which provide an Islamic education are bent constantly discovered to irritate the Russian authorities. Despite arrests and imprisonment, independent Mullahs continue to teach in Turkestan Secret Sufi orders, militantly devoted to the establishment of a Turkestani Muslim state on the ashes of Russia's colonial administration are strong and growing. In light of these facts, it comes as no surprise that the Soviet Russian government’s publication of anti-Islamic literature is on the risa or that the activities of atheist propagandists have been intensified.
 Communism and Islam cannot be reconciled. Remember that the Muslims of Turkestan, the Caucasus and Volga regions consist of 50 million people, and they are reproducing