AFGHANews Vol 5, No 6, March 15,1989, page 6
Che Guevara disappoints his
grandfather
Twenty years ago a child was bom in a village near the city of Kabul. His uncle, an important communist figure, called him Guevara, after the revolutionary Cuban fighter.
Guevara was a strange name to the villagers. Names in Islamic communities usually have a meaning and in most cases the meanings refer to the allegiance of the person to the faith.
Guevara had a meaning in literary Persian language which meant "favorable" and this meaning was used to cover the real meaning of the name.
Little Guevara had a grand father who was a good Muslim. He had been a member of the Afghan national assembly and an outspoken against wrong-doing of the local government officials. Although he was not highly educated, he had learned that communists were against worshipping God. He had learned that from religious scholars in his town. Of course, he had met the refugees from Central Asia who had escaped the tyranny of communists and had brought with them the horror stones of burning mosques, humiliating religious books and killing innocent believers.He regretted that he could not become an Islamic scholar, Mawlawi, but wanted his sons to become religious scholars.
The old man had 7 sons one of whom studied the faculty of Islamic law of the Kabul University. The old man was happy that at least one of his sons was going in the direction he wanted.
He was disappointed when he learned that his son had joined the communist party and was defying religion.
The old man had collected a large number of religious books for his future scholar sons. He had bought most of these books from the relatives of a religious scholar who had returned to the village from India after completion of his studies.
The religious scholar, called Mawlawi, had brought several camelloads of books. The village scholar died soon. His family did not need the books. The old man brought the books for the future scholar of his family.
The old man was disappointed by the performance of his sons. Not only they did not become scholars, they became communists and gave up practicing Islam.
The old man was in permanent conflict with his sons. The family had two dogs. The Guevara's uncle who had
become a member of the Central Committee of Parcham party (a faction of PDPA headed by Babrak Karmal) named one of the dogs Johnson and the other Nixon to show his displeasure to the biggest capitalist country in the world. Since he was a good agitator he persuaded the neighbors to call the two dogs by their new names.The dogs learned their new names and responded when were called by those names.
One day the old man heard that the dogs were called by strange names. He found out that the names were given to the dogs by his Perchami son.
He was angry. He did not approve that the name of two persons believing in God should be put on two dogs.
To show his displeasure with his communist son he re-named the dogs. He called one of them Lenin and the other Stalin.
The old man acted emotionally otherwise Islam forbids cursing the leader of other faiths. Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) has said that Muslim should not curse the false Gods of the non-Muslims so that they should not curse the true God of the them.
These types of disputes had become a common thing in the family.
One Of the old man's sons had married a girl from a religious family. The old man wanted his grandchildren from this son to fulfill his dreams by becoming Mawlawi. When the old man heard that his grand son was named Guevara he was surprised because it was not a common name.
He tried to understand why such a name was given to the child but could not find the reason because Che Guevara was not as famous as Lenin and Stalin in Afghanistan. He changed the name from Guevara to Gul Agha, a common name among Afghans.
The old man did not live long. One night he was saying his prayers close to the shelves of the books that he had collected. He told his wife that he was very worried about the construction of a bridge over Amu river (the river which forms the border between the Soviet Union and Afghanistan). He was afraid that the Soviets might use the bridge to invade Afghanistan. After saying these words he slept and in the morning he was found dead. About ten years later that bridge was used to invade Afghanistan.
After the old man's death the family felt free. Gul Agha was changed back to Guevara.
After the.Soviet invasion Guevara who was a student and lived with his father became a defender of the revolution. During days, he participated in marches and meetings in support of the regime and at nights he was a soldier to protect the factory in which his father was working. He was paid a good salary.
When the Soviets started to withdraw from Afghanistan Guevara's family moved to Kabul because the factory was not a safe place anymore. He joined the puppet army and raised to the rank of 2nd lieutenant.
Refugees in Pakistan listen to the obituary programs of the regime radio. It was announced in one of the programs that the Second Lieutenant Guevara had died in action. His relatives in exile had mixed feeling towards this incident They were happy that an enemy of Islam was killed but at the same time were sad why one of their relatives should die defending communism.
The old man's dream never materialized. Neither his sons nor his grandsons became Mawlawi. His house was burned by the Soviets. Some of his books were sold by his sons and some others were destroyed in the war.
Editorial
From page (4)
and planning. What is important is coordination of military activities all over the country.
Despite formation of the interim government of the Mujahideen fighting in Jalalabad is conducted by the parties rather than by the interim government This will be the case in the rest of the country.
The Jalalabad campaign showed the need for a balanced information policy. The present news agencies run by different Mujahideen parties lack such a policy. Most of the time the attack is publicized before it is launched and an exaggerated account of the war is given. This way of handling the news is harmful to the Mujahideen.
There is no alternative to honest and objective reporting. The Mujahideen should say things when they have happened. They should Keep their intentions secrets. Achievements must be Publicized but difficulties should be also mentioned