------------- A£BHAH«ire Volt Ho 12. Juae 13,1988, Page?
Soviet mines prevent return of normal life in liberated areas of Afghanistan
NOW that the Geneva accords are signed and Soviet troops have started to j withdraw from | Afghanistan, the time has come for the refugees to return to the liberated areas and resume their normal life.
The major obstacle in front of the refugees is the continuation of the war between the Mujahideen and the puppet regime. As long as the puppet regime exists the large-scale return of the refugees will not fee possible.
The return of refugees on a small-scale poses another problem and that is the presence of a large number of mines planted by the Soviets and their puppets.
if the liberated areas are not cleared of mines the refugees will not feel safe to return. The cleaning of the mine fields is the job of the Soviets who planted them. So they have to provide equipment, maps and other information necessary to clear the mine fields.
Use of mines started with the beginning of the Soviet invasion and the eight years of war witnessed an Increase in the number of mines used and the introduction of several sophisticated types.
A protocol to the I9S1 UN convention on "excessively injurious“ weapons of war prohibits the Indiscriminate use of land mines in circumstances likely to cause civilian casualties.
Some types of mines were j used by both the Soviet army and the puppet troops, but the most sophisticated ones were used by the Soviet Amy alone. The reason for this was the fear that the Mujahideen might toe learnt from defecting or captured puppet soldiers ways of defusing them.
Butterfly mine®
The most common type of | mine used by the enemy were | butterfly mines delivered by helicopters, jets or ground-to-ground rockets. These types of mine have a low power intensity and wilt maim the victim rather than kill him.
These mines were used to block the routes and slow down the retreating units of the Resistance. They are coloured to blend with the ground m which it is spread. Butterfly mines have an attractive shape which draw the attention of children. A great number of children have been maimed by these mines. Butter fly mines have also caused the de&th of a large number of cattle.
Butterfly mines are water-proof and can remain active for several years. If seen they can foe exploded easily. Liquid explosives are used In these mines.
$wae adventurist Mujahideen have taken out the explosives and used the plastic case of the butterfly mine as a snuff box.
»n cembinatlon with the butterfly mines, a circle-shaped mine is dropped from the planes. These mines are much stronger than the butterfly
mines and have been seen to kill a horse which steps on it.Seme of these circle-shaped mines m self-destructive type.
The Soviets have used ether types of
self-destructive mines behind the fighting fronts too. When they explode toy give the sound of a mortar shell»
Dschk and Kaiashinkov. The purpose of using.these mines is to worry the Mujahideen by giving them to impression the enemy forces have attacked them from all directions.
Pull-wire mines
The second type of mto.uesd by the Soviets and their puppets, are pull-wire fragmentation mines. These mines are planted around the energy pesiticn to prevent the Mujahideen from approaching these positions* These mines are erected m pieces of sticks which hold them about 13 cm above the ground. A narrow wire Is attached to the fuse and tied to seme objects several caters away In such a way that the wire is kept a few centimeters above the ground. When someone approaches to mine he (she) will hit the wire with his j (her) foot and the mine is set off.
If to victim is close to the mins the chance of survival is small. Since these mines are visible, in the absence of the enemy It is easy to defuse them. These mines may not create a tot of problems'to to cleaning teest shice special equipment is net seeded to detect them. These mine* could be a problem for to Mujahideen