AFGHANews Vol 7, No24, December 15, 1991, page©
Vho is who in the Mujahideen
Cmdr. Alam Khan
Mohammad Alam Khan, 39, is the chief commander of Jami'at Islami in Balkh Province. He is famous for his Islamic character and achievements on the battlefield.
Alam Khan began ehad in Balkh province in 1981 as an ordinary Mujahid under the leadership	of	the late
Zabihullah. Showing leadership qualities, he soon became a group commander and after six months was appointed the commander of Nahr-
i-Shahi District, leading :.
abut	400	Mujahideen.
Commander Zabihullah was
When martyred in 1984, Alam Khan was appointed the chief commander of Jami'at Mujahideen in Balkh.
Commander Alam Khan has taken part in numerous battles against the Soviet and the Kabul regime forces, including the following:
Mujahideen under his command liberated Daulatabad District and captured many security posts in Balkh District on November 8,1991. Khuday Qul, one of his most effective lieutenants, was killed in the operation.
In 1990, his Mujahideen defeated an enemy army unit in the Arghoon area of Balkh District, capturing 130 soldiers and killing and wounding dozens more. The Mujahideen seized a large quantity of arms and munitions, including six tanks.
In 1989, Commander Alam ambushed an enemy convoy in Tang-i-Tashqurghan, destroying 70 tanks, armored cars and trucks and killing and wounding dozen of enemy soldiers. The road was blocked for seven days, and the Mujahideen seized 17 tractors and a large quantity of ammunition and foodstuffs.
•In 1987, he repulsed a Soviet attack on Sholgar District, inflicting heavy losses. The enemy lost two helicopters and one jet in this operation. In three days of fighting, 28 Mujahideen were martyred and 100 Mujahideen sustained injuries.
•In 1986, he liberated Sholgar District, capturing 45 enemy soldiers and seizing a great deal of arms, including two tanks. The Mujahideen lost seven men in this operation.
•In 1983, he launched a diversionary attack on enemy targets inside the city of Mazar during the time when the enemy was besieging the Mujahideen
base of Marmol Gorge. Sixty Mujahideen were martyred and 40 were captured in the siege, which lasted 10 days.
Alam Khan, who belongs to an Arab tribe of northern Afghanistan, is married and has three children.
He was bom in Langar Khana of Nahr-i-Shahi District His father,
' Gholam Jan, was an ordinary farmer. After graduating from Qazi Abu Matee Primary School, he studied at Sher Ali Khan High School in Mazar. After graduating from high school, he began to work in the Mazar textile factory as a clerk.
Alam Khan worked in Balkh Fertilizer Factory when the communist coup took place. He left his job because he did not approve of the communist takeover. Since there was no open resistance to the communist regime in Mazar at that time, he migrated to Iran. When the people of Herat rose against the communist regime in 1979, Alam Khan went to Herat and joined the Mujahideen. He fought against alongside them there for one year before coming to Peshawar, intending to return to Mazar. In Herat he established close contact with Ismail Khan and his deputy, Allauddin Khan.
He left Peshawar for Mazar in 1981 at the head of a small group of Mujahideen. He went to Zabiullah's base in Marmol, a gorge a few miles outside the city of Mazar, and began to fight
Commander Alam has many good qualities. He is an extremely brave man. Hi& courage in making hard decisions has earned him respect of his Mujahideen. He is a God-fearing man who does not show interest in material gpins for himself. He leads a simple life. He treats his Mujahideen with kindness in leisurely times but expects a serious attitude and discipline during fighting. He visits each and every post during battles to see the situation for himself. In dealing with the issues concerning the civilian population, he has shown a lesser degree of interest. He leaves such issues, for the most part, to other leaders in his front, such as Mawlawi Alam, Mawlawi Abdullah and Malim Atta. While Alam Khan is a respected figure among the
(«
To page (8)

The former head of the Kabul regime, Babrak Karma!, has told a Soviet news paper that he was taken to Moscow in 1986 for medical treatment and put under house arrest to pave the way for Najib to come to power.
„ .	•••	l||	'	'	.
m *§gggg *v	^ V « S ||
Former Soviet foreign minister Eduard Shevardnadze has been reappointed to the post in place of Boris ’ankin. Radio Moscow reported.
Pankin has been named the new Soviet ambassadorto^Dondon.
IS.........
The. Mujahideen in -Nangarhar have eaptured- lO KHAD agents in Shinwar District, recovering from them 16 time-bombs;. %
They^were sent to Mujahideen commanders.
• The political Wthorities bfMhah Shah have refused to allow Afghan reftige^ to reopen mote drawls shops in the border town.
The authorities closed. *Keir shops 15 days ago on the repeated demands of :
men, The pressure is aimed at forcing the Mujahideen to open, the Khost-Kabul road for tribal merchants.
^..General Mohammad-Raft, ooe of the four vice presidents of the Kabul regime, left Kabul for Paris on November 13 to take part in art'international conference on narcotics.
Making use of the occasion* pe met with the General Secretary of the Foreign Ministry of France and discussed |with him the situation.; in.
Rafi told French officials that Najib will not resign from his post because such a. move would creme a power vacuum tn Afghanistan, which will lead to further bloodshed!
M |	;•
One person was killed and two were injured wheat art -unknown per son threw a hand grenade mb a meet ing of Afghan refugees in Pabbi camp, outside Peshawar* on
f" .AblifMatahl a., student land member of Jami'at Islami, was killed while M«8r Kamil and Maulavi Kifayatuilah, two teachers of Jehac University, were injured in the
incident.'	■>	,
V ... . ..........................J