AFGHANews Vol8, No 4, February 15,1992, page ©
Keshtmand wounded by gumman in Kabul
Former Afghan prime minister Sultan Ali Keshtmand was shot and wounded on February 7 by a gunman outside a mosque in Kabul, AFP reported quoting the Watan Party sources.
A lone gunman fired three shots at Keshtmand at around 3 pm when he was leaving a mosque after attending a funeral service. The attacker escaped.
Keshtmand was taken to the Red Crescent hospital and then transferred to the military hospital.
Watan Party sources said no motive had been established for the attack. But diplomatic sources said the former prime minister had recently been critical of the government's attitude towards Afghanistan’s minority communities.
Keshtmand, belonging to Hazara minority group, became prime minister under former president Babrak Karmal.
A founder of the former Communist People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA), Keshtmand resigned from the Watan Party, successor to the PDPA, last year.
Keshtmand and Karmal returned from Moscow last year after spending some years in exile.
Keshtmand was later taken to Moscow for treatment French government refused to issue visa for Keshtmand to be treated in France. A spokesman of the foreign ministry said in Paris that Keshtmand was being treated somewhere else so he will not be issued visa.
. Admission to Palestinian leader George Habash to be treated in France triggered a political scandal which resulted in the resignation of several ranking officials of French government While the issue of Habash's visit had not come to an end, French government did not want to take any risk by allowing Keshtmand, a controversial figure, to be treated in France.
Two years ago, a daughter of Najib, the head of the Kabul regime, was allowed to be treated in France.
About 100 men demonstrated in front of the military hospital where Keshtmand was being treated. They raised slogans in support of equality of all nationalities.
They also asked the shopkeepers in Kabul, most of whom are Hazaras, to close their shops in protest to attack on Keshtmand. This call was generally ignored.
One day before the attack, Keshtmand had asked the UN to make sure that the right of the minorities are preserved in the system that emerges from the UN-sponsored peace process.
Many Hazaras have doubts about sincerity of Keshtmand's political stand in support of Hazaras because of his role in the government during the occupation of Afghanistan by the Red Army and membership of the PAPA.
A newspaper published by Harrakat-i-Islami of Mohsini, ridiculing Keshtmand's statements in defense of Hazaras, wrote that he could not represent Hazaras. The paper called him 'a traitor who tries to deceive people’.
Jalalabad road still closed
Jalalabad-Torkham road which was opened by the Mujahideen on February 4 was | closed after two days. The j Mujahideen allowed some trucks, belonging to the tribal | traders, to cross the border.
A Mujahideen source said it was a temporary measure ar-| ranged between the local Mujahideen and tribal traders. The Mujahideen rejected the me-' dia report of opening the road | permanently.
The transit road connecting I Peshawar with the eastern city of I Jalalabad was blocked by the [Mujahideen in 1989. Pakistan tribesmen involved in cross-border trade al-
; The head of the Kabul regime has declared 35'.pf February, the day Sdwet,. troops was' *	f	"Natiqnal
Salvation If will be a holiday
| The Kabul regime has $mfted
death sentence ip. #ve inte&' tipnai murder, explosion . involving
life
and crimes which.Fesult in occupation
bf part.	i	foreign
force. <Commehri Based on this item of the taw¥;:P^|'leaders _ should ;|e
iton M Afghanistan by the Soviet troops for one decade.}. Regime radio
said
sentence,'.' ieforc'.: .^.v.,ainendg«nt, were93* I . |li||||l|li||«I|
>4* v,y/£«## r ' 'Zi\
; Hap Abdul Qa^^aeomrnan^r, belonging to Kezfc Islam! Kh^Bs, has'
ftebtohf* of
Commander Abddf Haq.

" y=.£.	V?	I
Karf^i ..coiinsellor at
'sad oh:iEai|iiy':9
mim? >y:
ways put pressure on the Mujahideen to leave the road open. The Mujahideen did not open the road because the Kabul regime would have benefit from trade through it. The Mujahideen, however, allowed cross-border trade through secondary roads which pass through the areas controlled by the Mujahideen.
Some people saw opening of Jalalabad road as a sign of change in Pakistan's Afghan policy. The Kabul regime welcomed the move.
Traders take foodstuff from Pakistan to Afghanistan and bring Russian and Japanese goods through Kabul to the market in Pakistan. Some of these tribesmen have trade arrangement with the Kabul regime.
i$i
Afghanistan (HIA) by securing 99.9
/of
food will be needed during 1992 for 33 ^million ; Afghan	»
refugee-feeding bperariCHte from the JVorld Food Prograrn|?r/	y'4"'
:	;-v::