 >

               A ■*<
                            -*
AFGHAN
NEWS
        A Biweekly. Bulletin Of Jami’at Islami Afghanistan Post Box No. 264, Peshawar - Pakistan.
                    THE HOLY MONTH QF RAMADAN
    Muslims are obliged to observe one month of fasting each year.
 In Afghanistan before the Communist Coup it was observed with full honour. The people and government both tried to make every effort to make it easy for the people to practice fasting and saying their special prayers. It was fast and feast. At the end of the day the people of the village or a quarter of the city got together in the mosque and waited for the announcement of sunset which was signalled by cannon fire and radio or the call of prayer. Recitations of the Holy Quran during the month of Ramadan took place and thousands of people took part in them, in all the cities, town and tillages.
    At the end of the month they celeberated the completion of Ramadan, People went to each other's houses. Forgave each other for rude words said , wore their best clothes and gave alms to the orphans end poor. At noon they gathered for special prayers in the biggest mosque of the towns. In order to show their respect, the government forgave and released a number of prisoners.
    After the Coup and especially after the Soviet invasion all that has been completely disturbed. In the cities, Ramadan is observed by ordinary people but government officers and party members hurt the sanctity of the month by eating in public.
    In the liberated areas there is war or the shadow of it. Food is not enough , people can not get together because of the enemy air raids . The Communist regime tries to show it is respecting Ramadan but hypo-era cy reveals itself and mhny people do not attend the congregational prayers led by the so-called Mullah on the government pay roll.
    Families axe divided so the gathering of the whole family is not possible . In some tarwns where 20,000 people lived before, now no one is living and the call for prayers is not heard. Mujahideen and refugees observe i Ramadan in their mountain hideouts and bases while in the occupied towns where the infidel army is living there are not sucto:sS&up +
    On Eid (the celebration of Ramadan) almost all the people go to the mosques with tearful eyes because of the loss of their sons, mother^ ,
 sisters or friends. They visit the graveyards to say prayers for them.