------------  AFC-HAN8VS	Volt	No	12,	June	15,1968, Page6
Mujahideen liberate Panjshir valley
May 26 marked the liberation of Panjshir for the fifth time since 1975. Liberation of this strategic valley is an important event.
Panjshir has served as an exampie of organised work, steadfastness and dedication of the Afghan people in their straggle against the Soviet invaders.
The Soviets employed all son of military tactics and different kinds of sophisticated weapons to finish a good example of organized work in this area of strategic importance but failed.
The unity among the people, wise leadership, proper plans, suitable organizations, favorable terrain and an exemplary sense of dedication of the people of the valley were the reasons for the survival of the Resistance and successive defeats of the enemy.
Panjshir was chosen as the base of anti-Communist activities in 1975. A group of young people who could see the danger of the pro-Soviet policies of Prince Daud decided to resist his regime by military means. In the summer of 1975 the valley was liberated by a group of young but highly dedicated people. It remained liberated for half s day. The operation was not successful. Commander Masood was a leading figure in the!975 uprising.
When the coup of 1978 took place the Communists started to impose an alien way of life on the people. They crushed any resistance by force and to eliminate potential enemies used violence. The people were forced to think of defending themselves through armed action. They welcomed the same people whom they had opposed in uprising of 1975-The people of the valiey chose Commander Masood as their
leader and liberated Panjshir in the summer of
1979.	The valley remained free for two months.
The Communists could recapture half of the valley but were not able to crush the Rsistance. When the first Soviet offensive against Panjshir was launched in the spring of 1980, the regime was controlling only 25 Km of the lower part of the valley.
Panjshir was liberated for the third time in the fall of
1980.	During 1980 the Soviets launched three offensives against the valley. In 1981 the valley faced the fourth offensive but it was a short-lived operation.
The fifth and sixth offensives were launched in 1982 and continued for six months. A local ceasefire agreement was signed and in the spring of 1983 the Soviets pulled out their troops from the valley. They had only a symbolic presence in the lower part of the valley. This arrangement facilitated the liberation of the valley for the fourth time.
After a year of ceasefire the famous seventh offensive was launched. The main valley was occupied and the Russians decided to continue their occupation. The Mujahideen continued to resist the enemy. The people of the valley became refugees. This long occupation continued from April 1984 to May 1988. This was the longest occupation period which devastated the whole valley. The Resistance captured three garrisons of the puppet regime and bogged down about 10,800 troops who were not controlling the population.
The fifth liberation come on May 26. The Mujahideen had decided to force the* enemy out of the valley. On May 15 in a spectacular operation Tanbana garrison was captured.
This victory demoralized the enemy and served as a catalyst for the evacuation of the whole valley. Hopefully this will be the last time of the liberation of Panjshir.
Panjshir valley, with 100,060 pre-war population and 140 Km long valley is situated about 80 Km North-East of Kabul. H is located close to the Salang valley, and Bagram Air base and serves as a corridor connecting the North to the South. It shares borders with six provinces and connects a large number of ethnic groups, ranging from Noaristani in the East, Pashtoons in the South, Hazaras in the West, Tajik and Uzbek in the North.
Panjshir with unique geographical features, a strategic location, and long experience of war will play an important rule in the liberation of Afghanistan and in the future policies of the country.
Panjshir is controlled by Jarai at Islam! political party and the beloved Commander of the Mujahideen, Masood, founded his model „ organization in this valley where he was born.
——OB EMB—
Enemy spreads rumors
RUMORS are circulating in Peshawar that the liberation of Panjshir is the result of a secret deal between the Soviets and Commander Masood.
Qanuni, the representative of Panjshir called the rumors 'Soviet disinformation to harm the reputation of Commander Masood/ He added that the valley was liberated through fighting.