   AEGflAKJN&W-S,—.YflL,.. 11___________MO, 19 1/1Q/19M- PACE 5
 The Soviets abiding by the prenciples of Marxism-Leninism are making use of every opportunity to harm their enemies. Drugs is one of these weapons.
                             (The following press release was issued from Jurist Office on Sep. 11th.)
   PROFESSOR RABBANI ASKS FOR COORDINATED ACTION TO HELP
                                                 HERAT
 Reports of severe fighting in Herat have reached here. The enemey is making use of long range artillary and their air force against the mujahideen and the civilian population. The mujahideen have suffered some casualties and those amongst tthe civilian population are high.
 The Mujahideen in Herat are resisting heroically, but they need to be supported. Professor Rabbani has asked from all mujahideen, especially Jamiat commanders, to launch coordinated action against the enemy, Such action would divert the attention of the Soviets away from Herat. We are sure that through a coordinated action of this kind the enemy will suffer great losses and its plans will be foiled.
                                MUJAHIDEEN CAPTURED A SOVIET SOLDIER
 4/9/1986 According to a report from Commander Mushtaq of Jamiat in Paghman Mujahideen captured a Soviet soldier with his weapon.
                                 NEWS FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS
                                            HERAT PROVINCE
 19/8/1986. Soviet-Puppet forces attacked the West part of Herat city. The enemy forces which were composed of a large number of tanks and armoured cars and thounsands of infantry soldiers, were heavily supported by the air force.The enemy forces attacked the city from the South-East, the South and West. The purpose of the enemy was to encircle the city and its surrounding areas.
 the Mujahideen resisted the invading forces, 100 enemy troops were killed and 50 others injured. Mujahideen captured 50 puppet soldiers and seized 50 guns. A large number armoured carriers were destroyed but the report
 does not give an exact number.