Vol 5, No 5	March	1,1989
Consultative Shoora approves Mujahideen government
Mujaddidi elected Head of State, Sayyaf Prime Minister of interim government
The Soviet troop withdrawal from Afghanistan is seen as a major victory for the people of Afghanistan in their struggle for self-determination. Problems still exist, but the major step towards liberation of the country has been taken.
The last Soviet soldier, Lt General Boris Gromov, commander of the Soviet forces in Afghanistan, crossed the border into the Soviet Union at noon on February 15.
The stage for the withdrawal was set to show that the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan was different from the American withdrawal from Vietnam.
. A group of foreign journalists were taken to the border to report the event.
A Soviet government statement issued on February 15 said that all Soviet soldiers were out of Afghanistan.
The Soviets have left behind some advisers, the number of whom is not known but the Soviets say they are few.
The United Nations Good Offices in Afghanistan and Pakistan which monitors the implementation of the Geneva Accords, reported to UN Secretary-General Perez de Cuellar that the withdrawal of Soviet* troops was completed.
The president of Pakistan in a message called February 15 a historic day and a miracle of 20th century. He also called it a victory for all those who cherished freedom and the victory of faith over material might.
Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto in her statement said that it was time to pause and pay tribute to those who struggled so heroically against seemingly possible odds.
The Pakistan National Assembly and Senate passed unanimously resolutions congratulating the Afghan people for the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan.
Turn to page (3 )
■ ■ ■ .
After 12 days of discussions the Consultative Council of the Mujahideen elected Prof. Mojaddidi as the president and Prof. Sayaf as the Prime Minister of the interim government which is supposed to replace Najibullah's government in Kabiil.The ministerial posts were divided among other parties in the Alliance.
It is generally believed that the Kabul regime will not last long after the Soviet withdrawal. The need for a relatively broad-based government was felt
The Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen, based in Peshawar, decided to convene a Consultative Council composed of the representatives introduced by the constituent parties of the Alliance and the Mujahideen parties based in Iran.
The Supreme Council of the Alliance decided that each of the seven parties in the Alliance should send 60 representatives. Half of the representatives should be field commanders and the rest political workers, refugees, religious scholars and intellectuals. For Iran-based parties 60 seats were allocated.
Bight Mujahideen parties based in Iran have an umbrella organization call die Coalition of Afghan Mujahideen
Iran-based parties demanded 120 seats. Several attempts were made to bridge the gap between the two sides but failed.
Mujaddidi, the spokesman of the Alliance, went to Teheran and signed an agreement with the Iran-based parties under which they were to be given 100 seats in the Consultative Council.
This agreement was not ratified by the Supreme Council and consequently the Iran-based parties stayed out of the Council.
The Deputy Prime Minister of Iran, Ali Raza Moayyeri, came to Islamabad to help the two sides to com-
promise. He did not succeed either.
After the boycott of the Council by the Iran-based parties, the Alliance agreed to give some seats to small independent groups of Maulawi Mansoor, Qazi Amin, Maulawi Moazzen, Maulawi Jamilurrahman (Wahabi) and Maulawi Afzal (Nooristani) Shurai-Ittefaq, a Shia party.
The first meeting of the council in the absence of Iran-based parties was held on February 10.
Mujaddidi first boycotted the meetings of the Council in protest at the rejection of the agreement he had signed with the Iran-based parties. Later he decided to return to the meeting but resigned from the spokesmanship of the Alliance. Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi replaced him.
The efforts to get a vote of confidence for Ahmad Shah's government failed. The reason was his failure to provide a list of ministers. The opposition came from the floor and a large number of delegates walked out in protest.
To end the crises 70 delegates headed by commander Haqqani presented themselves for mediation. Later a 14 member committee was formed to finalize the proposals and present them to the council. Each party introduced two people for the committee and deci- * sions of the committee were considered final.
The committee reached the decision to hold election in the council. The party leaders were put forward as the candidates for the posts of presidency, prime .ministership and different ministries. Each delegate had the right to vote for two of the seven leaders.
The leader who won the highest number of votes would be the president The leader in second place was entitled to introduce the Prime Minister.
Turn to page ($ )