AFGHAN NEWS VOL.11 I, MO.2, 15/1/ 190? PAGE 3
We hope the leaders of Turkey will give freedom for its people to wear the type of clothes which they think suits their beliefs. We fully admire the bravery of our Turkish sisters who have decided to wear decent Islamic clothes and wish them every success in their just and peaceful struggle.
NEWS FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS
                                                IOGAR PROVINCE
 26/12/1986. Mujahideen from Jami'at in Barakibarak district attacked the administrative building of the Sayedabad district in Wardak province with heavy weapons. They were helped by a local group from NIFA. 107 mm. rocket shells destroyed several enemy posts , a medicine depot, and one truck. Casualties of the enemy were not immediately known and Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
 Sayedabad district is located on the Kabul-Qandahar highway. Mujahideen from the two neighbouring provinces of Wardak and Logar are usually co-operating in the operations against the common enemy.
 26/12/1986. An enemy helicopter was hit with fire of the Mujahideen's AA machine guns and crushed in Padkhab. The body of the Helicopter was carried away by the enemy forces. The enemy retaliated by pounding the villages with ground-to-ground rockets as a result of which one man and one woman were martyred and a lot of houses destroyed.
 26/12/1986. Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the enemy postions in Pul-i-Alam. the provincial capital of Logar province with heavy weapons. Mujahideen from other parties had also participated in the attack. The enemy suffered heavy casualties the number of which were not immediately known.
 27/12/19876. Mujahideen from Jami'at who were supported by a group from Hezb ( Khalls group) attacked the enemy positions in Barakibarak district with heavy weapons. The enemy's casualties were not immediately known.
 28/12/1986. Mujahideen from Jami'at in Kulangar area ambushed an enemy convoy. More then 20 APCs and trucks were destroyed. The report does not give any more details.
 Ail the above operations were planned for the seventh anniversery of the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. Logar is situated south of Kabul and the resistance is well established there. Jami’at Islami Chief Commander in Logar is Doctor Fazlullah.