AFGHANews Vol5, No 3, February 1, 1989, page 8
Jami'at leader asks refugees to help rebuilding Afghanistan
THE Jami'at leader has invited Afghan refugees living in the West to participate in formation of an Islamic government and help in the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
Prof. Rabbani made the appeal at a gathering of Afghan refugees in Washington, D.C. on November 8, 1988.
The Mujahideen leader said that Afghanistan will be liberated soon and now is the time that all Afghans should think about the future of their country. They should help to establish an Islamic government The full participation of all Afghans, those who fight in Afghanistan and those who live as refugees outside the country, is necessary for the establishment and success of such a government
He said the assumption that the Mujahideen will monopolize power after the liberation of the country is wrong. On the contrary they want all cross sections of Afghan society to participate in determining their destiny. The refugees should not think they are
separate from the Mujahideen.
Prof. Rabbani said that the reconstruction of Afghanistan needs the help of all Afghans, especially educated people. These people are welcomed by the Mujahideen irrespective of their official rank in previous regimes ^nd the country in which they have sought refuge.
To prove his point Prof. Rabbani gave as an example the return of Prof. Fazel Khan who was the deputy minister of education during the king's rule and later became a refugee in France. Fazel Khan returned last summer to Afghanistan mid was warmly welcomed by Commander Masood and his Mujahideen. Now he is busy organizing educational activities in the areas controlled by the Supervisory Council of the North.
The Jami'at leader also invited military officers to return to the country and help in creating the Islamic army.
He said that since the victory of Afghans is close, our refugee brothers
Turn to page (7)
Afghanistan will not become lebanon
Kabul city is facing acute shortages of food and fuel in one of its harshest winters.
Food shortages are an acute problem. People are queuing to get bread, the principal diet, from 3 a.m and each family can get only five loaves of bread.
The regime is distributing 120 tons of flour per day to bakers but this is not enough. There is need for 400 tons of flour to make bread for two million people of the city.
The regime blames the Mujahideen for shortages of food and fuel. It also holds responsible "hoarders" and has announced an anti-hoarding campaign.
Fuel comes from the Soviet Union and part of the foodstuff also comes from that country.
By closure of Kabul-Jalalabad and Kabul-Kandahar roads food is not brought from these two directions. Heavy snow has slowed down transport of food and fuel from Soviet border to the capital.
The regime had been responsible for transport and purchase of food and fuel Food and fuel were transported by the government transport company or private trucks on government hire.
The Soviets have announced an airlift of food to die city. It takes 13IL-26 transport planes to bring400 tons of flour. Over a long time this will be a difficult means of supply.
Fuel, mainly kerosene and diesel which is used for heating, cooking and burning in lamps is in short supply.
The temperature is usually below zero and the ground is covered with snow.
If the roads are cut and the Soviets decide to bring fuel by air they will have to airlift 1200 tons of fuel per day, which.is a very difficult job to do.
Moscow television has criticized the regime for shortages of food and fuel in die capital and has attributed the problem to the inefficiency of the regime and lack of planning.
The Soviet and regime media are trying to make food shortages a humanitarian cause against the Mujahideen.
An Afghan listening to the regime’s propaganda on the radio said: "Who is responsible for food shortages in Soviet Union? There are long queues in front of state run shops in the Soviet Union. The system must be blamed, not the Mujahideen.”
Mujahideen leaders and scholars from several countries participated in a two-day seminar held in Teheran to discuss the future of the Afghan problem.
The seminar on future cultural, economic, strategic and international aspects of the Afghan problem was sponsored by the political and international office of the Foreign Ministry of Iran. Scholars from eleven countries presented their papers in the conference. UN representatives woe also present
This was the first such seminar held in Teheran. This indicates the increased interest that Iran has started to take in Afghanistan after die ceasefire in the Gulf.
The president of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Sayed Ali Khamenie, sent a message to the conference in which he called the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan an obvious victory for the Mujahideen.
Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, Jami'at leader, told the seminar on Afghanistan that die Mujahideen would always be prepared to resume talks with the Soviets if they were "serious and honest”. "The Mujahideen will never close the door on negotiations," Rabbani said, but he stressed that Soviet Deputy Foreign MinisterYuri Vorontsov, who led Moscow's negotiating team in talks with the Mujahideen, had "threatened" the people of Afghanistan and was trying to use the talks as a political ploy. "Everywhere they talk about peace," he said, "but we are the ones who are dying and they are the aggressors."
Rabbani said that warnings of a "second Lebanon” in Afghanistan after the expected fall of the Kabul regime following the completion of die Soviet troop withdrawal next month had no purpose but to discourage the Afghan
Turn to page ( 7 )