flFGHRH MENS OOL.III, HO. 19, 1/10/ 1W7 PB6E 7
 The name of the child is Mohammad Zaher. In response to a question about his studies in Tashkand he said he studied topography, physiognomy and photography. He had three lady teachers there; one Afghan, one Tadzhik and one Russian.
 Zaher was wearing new clothes on Eid day and seemed happy. He described his trip to the Soviet Union as follows:
 They took us by bus to Hairatan (a port on the border between Afghanistan and Russia). From there we were taken to Tashkand by plane. Altogether we were 18 groups (of children). Each group consisted of 13 persons. I was the head of my group."
 About his spying studies in Kabul, he was in fourth grade, he said he was sent to the 'poineers' Palace" to be trained as a spy. His teachers were an Afghan by the name of Ubaid" and a Russian.                                                    t
 Zaher was especially taught about recognizing the people from Panjshir When asked how he recognizes them, he replied "They are disciplined, have fresh faces, look active., and while speaking they use "Alai and Bale” (words used only in colloquial Panjshiri
 Persian).
 When asked about his job after studying in Tashkand, Zaher said he was sent to Ghorband to prepare maps and collect information about Panjshiri Mujahideen there. He spent several months in Ghorband. and when he wanted to return to Kabul, a suspicious Mujahid asked him some questions. Zaher's contradictory responses led to his arrest. After a while he was sent to Panjshir.
 I talked to Zaher when he had just returned from Kabul. He is originally from Maimana (Faryab province). His father, Mirza Murad, owns a carpet store in Kabul After two years, Mujahideen allowed Zaher to go to Kabul and visit his family
 He described his trip to Kabul as the following: "1 spent only a few days at home. My father wanted me to go to the "Palace; report what I had seen in Panjshir and Ghorband, and collect my two year's salary. He also asked me not to go to the Mujahideen-held territories any more and just practice topography in Kabul. But the good treatment of my Mujahid brothers did not let me accept my father's advice. I left home with the pretence of going to the barber s shop and returned to Panjshir."
 During the two years he has spent with the MujahideeQ, Zaher has learned the Holy Quran with its translation.
 I asked him when he would reunite with his family. He put his head down and whispered," I am not going back to Kabul". If my parents are muslims, they will come here. Otherwise, I do not want to be with them.”
 Zaher is one of the thousands of Afghan children who have been taken to the Soviet Union to be trained as spies. He is one of the hundreds of spying children who have been captured red-handed in the course of their duties.
 In accordance with the teachings of their religion, the muslim Afghan Mujahideen do not kill any children, even if they are spies. Zaher is one such a child for whom what law has provided is a new life.
                                                    mm*
                            JEHRD TILL IPICTORY