AFGHANews Vol7, Noll, June 1,1991, page 0
Jami'at envoy visits Sweden
■ Daud Mir, Jami'at Islami's representative in France, discussed the situation in Afghanistan and problems concerning humanitarian aid for Afghans with the officials of the Foreign Ministry of Sweden in Stockholm on April 19.
The Swedish side expressed their support for the Afghan people in their struggle for self-determination.
The people and government of Sweden have been supporting the struggle of Afghans in the past one decade of war. Swedish government has given substantial humanitarian assistance to the war-affected Afghans through the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan and the UN agencies.
Rabbani opens media seminar
A four-day seminar discussing the role of mass media, in free Afghanistan, was opened in Islamabad by Prof. Rabbani on May 11.
The seminar was organized by the Cultural Council of Afghanistan. The Council, headed by Sabahuddin Kushkaki, a former- Minister of Information and culture of Afghanistan, is a private non-political organization supporting Jehad.
The role of print and electronic media was discussed by prominent Afghan scholars. Twenty five papers on different aspects of media were read out in the seminar. These papers will be published as a book so that Afghans could benefit from die views expressed in them.
The organizers hope dial the seminar will provide ideas for the Afghan leaders who form die new government in a free Afghanistan. This was the fifth seminar held in the past two years by the cultural council. The previous seminars discussed education, judicial and politic system in a free Afghanistan.
Floods in Faryab
Floods and landslides caused by heavy rain have destroyed about
8,000	houses and many irrigation channels in Faryab in foe past two months.
Quoting Mawlawi Sayyed Yousuf, the provincial head of Jami'at Mujahideen, HINA parted that due to lack of proper housing death among children and elderly have increased recendy.
V______________________________)
Dear Sir,
I was profoundly disturbed to read the article entitled "Afghan Diplomat Criticizes UN Human Rights Reporting" which appeared in VoL 7, No. 2, of your publication.
I have known Mr. Pazhwak from the time when he was the Afghan representative in the Commission on Human Rights in the early sixties. I esteem his ability and interest in human rights
reporting, published in AFGHANews of IS January 1991, greatly surprised me and I was particularly shocked by his statement that I am censored by the Government when reporting to the United Nations. This allegation is completely untrue and violates my honor as an independent expat and my commitment to foe Afghan question which, I believe, has been amply demonstrated in my reports. It is only the burden of litigation that prevents me from challenging this statement before competent courts.'
I would be grateful if AFGHANews could publish this reply in a prominent space in its publication.
Felix Ermacora
Special Rapporteur on foe situation
of human rights in Afghanistan
Geneva-Switzerland
Dear Sir,
I would like to congratulate foe Mujahideen on their victory against foe puppet regime in Khost Insha Allah foe Mujahideen will be victorious all over Afghanistan.
I enjoy reading AFGHANews, but it states that there are problems among foe Mujahideen. Brothers! if there are
Afghan Jehad that lasted 13 years will be a waste.
Personally, I do not understand how there can be problems among the Mujahideen? The Mujahideen I have spoken to say they all favor foe establishment of an Islamic government Mir Ali Hackensack New Jersey -USA.
Dear Sir,
It has been a long time since I have
been in Peshawar (December 1989) and I am very happy to be able to greet you all again.
May I offer my congratulations on foe fall of Khost _ I look forward to more Mujahideen victories. How about Kabul next?!!
I was sorry to read of the cowardly attack against Ustaz Rabbani. Please accept my condolences for the death of his bodyguards. Also, I was grieved to read that Commander Sanaullah of Central Units Heavy Weapons was recently martyred in action in Taliqan. I knew him well, and spent several days with his group during the 1988 operation against Komi Mali in Bagh-i-Zakhira. He was a fine and able Mujahid and his death is a sad loss.
I am currently revising a book that I have been writing for foe past year about my 1988 trip inside, and strangely I was working on die chapter concerning Sanaullah when I got foe tragic news.
Keep up the good work with AFGHANews. Thanks for the copy you send me, it is excellent reading -and source material. I hope to be in Peshwar - Insha Allah - by August this year. See you then.
Terence White
Gisborne- New Zealand
Dear Sir,
Thank you for sending AFGHANews regularly., Without receiving it, I would have remained unaware of developments in relation to Jehad.
In order to help publishing the paper. I’m enclosing a check of $500. learned about the blast close to foe resi-
that Prof. Rabbani was not hurt. I condole with foe families of his guards who died in foe incident Zia Ahmad Yamayee Spokna
Washington- USA DearSir,
Never have we read your esteemed AFGHANews with so much pleasure when in the April 15 issue we read such a big tide: Khost is liberated. We were overwhelmed with pleasure. Mohammad Raffick Port-Louis - Mauritius
matters. His criticism of my method of
problems among foe Mujahideen they	of	^	Rabbani.	Thanks	Allah
should be solved. Otherwise, the enemies of Islam will be happy and