 AFGHAN NEWS           No. 8             30-4-1985        P-29
 The enemy made use of 25 MI-24 Helicopters, 40 MIG-21s, MIG-23s and SUs Jets and more than 600 AFVs.
 The Mujahideen resisted well, they inflicted heavy losses on the enei^y.and foiled their plans. Two Helicopters and one MIG-21 Jet was Shot down . A large number of Soviet AFVs were destroyed. The number of enemy casualtys has not yet been reported;
 The enemy retaliated with indiscriminate aerial strikes against villages in the liberated areas which caused many casualties and material losses for the people . No casualty figures have been given.
 Commander Ismaeil Khan gave orders for Mujahideen of Ghouryan, Kohsan and Zinda Jan districts to attack militia posts which were'recently established by a traitor called MoaliM'Karim. Mujahideen captured the posts by killing a group of militia and capturing some others,, All the weapons and ammunitions of these militias fell into the hands of the Mujahideen,
 Among those who were killed was the brother of Karim, the head of militia mentioned above. Two Mujahids were martyred and three other injured during the operation.
                      JAMIAT_APP01NTED_ A._NEW_LEADER_FOR_BAJLKH PROVINCE'
    Recently Jamiat Islami leadership decided to appoint Mawlavi Mohammad Alam as the new leader of Balkh. province. After Zabihullah's sad demise, Jamiat had appointed Mawlavi Abdullah as the temporary Amir of Mujahideen of Jamiat in Balkh province. Below is a short biography of Mawlavi Alam,. the new Amir of Balkh provinces
    Mawlavi M.Alam s/o Haji Haiderbay, was born in Resiang village of Nahri Shahi district, in 1947. His father was a farmer, Mawlavi Alam went to the local mosque for his primary studies. Then he entered Asa-dia Madrassa (a religious school run by the government). After graduation from this school, he gained admmission to the faculty of Islamic Law of Kabul University. He graduated from the faculty in 1976. From 1972 to 1976 when he was a student in Kabul, he was affected by the ideas of the Islamic movement and started activities. Ke was closely associated with muslirn student leaders like Niazi and A.Q.Qadir Taw-ana. After graduation he. went for 6 months military service and them started to work as deputy to the public prosecuter, first in Mazar city and after in Nahri Shahi district.
    After the Communist coup in 1978 he lel't this job and joined Mujahideen who were led by the late Zabihullah, Since then, he has been closely associated with Zabihullah and has worked as the head of this military committee. Mawlavi Alam is a gentleman with many good qualities .Besides being a well-educated man he is a good fighter.