AFGHANI'S Vol 4, No 9, May 1,1968, Page 6
Opinion by Dr. Lafraie
             Why are we not excited?
    THE SOMBER mood among the Afghan refugees and Afghan Mujahideen after the Geneva agreement surprises the foreign observers who consider those agreements as a great achievement for the Afghan people. Why are you not excited?*, “Why is the mood so flat?" are the auestions often asked. They sympathise with us, however, once they hear our reasons.
    Undoubtedly, the fact that Russia shows readiness to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan is a great victory for the Afghan Mujahideen. When Russia invaded Afghanistan the world thought it was there to stay forever and could crush any resistance easily. The US president of the time considered the occupation of Afghanistan as a fait accompli and warned the Soviet Union that the US could not tolerate its expansion towards Pakistan.
    The Afghan people, however, proved that they could not. only resist effectively, but also finally force Russia to admit its mistake and get ready to withdraw its troops, at least on the surface.
    Despite their great achievement in forcing a superpower to retreat, the Afghan people are not excited because they have certain concerns about objections to the Geneva talks and agreements. To state them briefly, we reject the Geneva accord because;
    • It puts a cover on Russia's defeat in Afghanistan.
    •    It gives the credit of Russian troop withdrawals to Cordove? and the UN. and not to the Mujahideen who really deserve ft,
    » In a treaty on Afghanistan, the real representative of the Afghan people, that is, the Mujahideen have been denied participation.
    •    The illegal puppet regime in Kabul signed a treaty in the name of Afghanistan.
    » The Geneva accord denies the Afghan people their rights of self-determination,
    •    The text of the agreements is offensive to the Afghan people because it reads as if their just struggle was an interference from outside, it is also offensive because It recognises the changes brought about in Afghanistan by the Russian puppets since April, 1978.
    •    Through Geneva, the Russians want to win international recognition for their puppets in Kabul.
    » By agreeing to withdraw their troops but insisting on retaining their puppets in Kabul and retaining the right tc arm them, the Russians want the war in Afghanistan to continue but its image to change. They want it to look as if the war of liberation has ended and what is happening now is a civil war.
    •    Russia wants to cut international support to the Mujahideen by forcing Pakistan to close their offices in its territory,
    •    Russia wants to create a news blackout on Afghanistan by stopping the entry of foreign journalists to the country through Pakistan. With the Mujahideen offices also closed,
 the world will hear only what the puppets In Kabul and their master want it to.
 • The puppets can not survive without the support of the Red Army. There is the possibility of the Russian troops staying in Afghanistan disguised as advisors and militiamen.
 They will help the regime survive, while Russians will claim it is through its own ability.
                                               Deal saves life of young Mujahid
    A MUJAHID who was sentenced to death by the puppet regime was set free fn exchange for a KHAD officer.
    Zarar Ahmad, 25, a Mujahid newly arrived in Peshawar said during an interview that after spending four months in regime prisons in Parwan province and Puli Charkhi in Kabul he and three other Mujahideen were released on an exchange deal.
    He was captured by the enemy forces on April IS, 1987 ciose to Charikar Ke said; “After 15 days of captivity. Abdu!
 Moomen, a KHaD local Administrator of Parwan was captured by the Mujahideen from Jaroi at. On September 1, 1987,I and two other Mujahideen were exchanged with Moomen, “
    He said that he was sentenced to death by a military court but when the KHAD officer was captured by the Mujahideen and the exchange deal was negociated, the regime dropped the case of his death sentence and instead sentenced him to 20 years imprisonment.
    Zarar has lost two of his brothers in the war.