AFGHANews Vol7, No 24, December 15,1991, page 0
Visiting Aay Khanum was interesting not only for seeing the regime's former strongholds and the historical site. It was more so because for the first time during the 13 years of Jehad, I found myself at the border with the Soviet Union. There was only one river between us and Tajikistan. The Russian security posts could easily be seen on the heights on the other side of the river. We wait down to the Amu river bank, drank water and took pictures. All these wae happening in the bright day light under the watchful eyes of the Russian soldiers who were certainly monitoring over activities through binoculars. We made ablution in Amu water and offered thanksgiving prayers to Allah Almighty, remembering the days when getting close to the border or to the Russian posts which were built on our land meant endangering one's life and most probably getting killed.
Yangi Qala
Yangi Qala District is a vast plain partly irrigated by outlets of Amu river, and partly desert Rice is the main product of the region. Darqad sub-District, which forms the delta of the Amu river, is located at the west and northwest of the district We found Qazi Kabir, the general commander of JIA in Yangi Qala, in Mughul Qishlaq village, which is closer to Dasht-i-Qala than the Yangi Qala town. He said he had selected that village as his headquarters — instead of Yangi Qala town or his own home town, Darqad - because it served as his base during the years of Jehad. Qazi Kabir is a graduate of the Faculty of Shariat (Islamic law), Kabul University. He is very knowledgeable and humble. At the beginning of Jehad he was a member of JIA. But he says, he was forced to join Hezb Islami Hikmatyar to seek protection against Samad who was in Jami'at at that time and was plotting against his life. He never participated in Hezb's anti-Jami'at activities, however, and was always in contact with the SC. After Khwaja Ghar was conquered by Mujahideen, he returned to his base, from where he was forced out few months ago, despite Eng. Bashir's opposition. After liberating Yangi Qala, he announced his membership to the SC of JIA.
Commander Abdul Wadood, who serves as the governor of Yangi Qala District, is a close friend and colleague of Qazi Kabir. His headquarters are located in Yangi Qala town.
Yangi Qala is a small town. Its market was destroyed by flooding a few years ago. At the initiative of Qazi Kabir, who is fond of construction and educational projects, a new town with a market is being built near the old town. When we visited the place in early October, about sixty to seventy percent of the construction work was completed.
Chayab
"Chayab" is a Dari (Persian) combined work meaning "water well." The town is named so because there is no river or canal to provide water far. consumption of the
town people and cultivation of agricultural fields around the town. Thus, people dig wells to get drinking water and rely on rain for their crops. It is surprising that despite this, crop yield is very high and delicious fruits such as grapes, melons, watermelons, pears, peaches, and almonds are abundant.
Chayab was liberated after withdrawal of the Russian troops in spring 1989. It was under the control of Hezb Islami until this summer. A visit to the town and its vicinity shows that heavy fighting had not taken place in the area.
Although Eng. Bashir, who is from Chayab, was appointed as the general commander of Hezb in Chayab and Takhar, the Teal power of Hezb in Chayab rested with Commander Bashir. Eng Bashir was away from the area for several years and could return only this Spring by secretly crossing die Kokcha river when the SC was busy in Khwaja Ghar war. Relations between two Bashirs deteriorated because of lack of trust and mutual suspicion. Commander Bashir felt Eng. Bashir had designed a plot for his assassination. He withdrew from Chayab to reorganize his forces. This coincided with the time when Khwaja Ghar and Rustaq were liberated. By fall of Rustaq to the SC, Eng. Bashir lost any hope of mustering assistance from the regime militias. Thus, he was forced to flee Chayab. He destroyed, however, all the heavy weapons he could not take along before his escape. Mutilated bodies of those artillery pieces still exist in front of his previous headquarters in Chayab. Commander Asadullah, who was a close associate of Eng.. Bashir and accompanied him during his flight to Shar-i-Bozorg of Badakhshan, gives two reasons for his defection tq-JIA: 1- Eng. Bashir's relationship not only; with Samad but with other Kabul regime'militias in Takhar as well; and 2- destruction of heavy weapons by Eng. Bashir which demonstrated his selfishness and insincerity to Jehad.
When Commander Bashir returned to Chayab following Eng. Bashir's flee, he contacted the SC through Qazi Kabir of Yangi Qala and proclaimed his allegiance to JIA. At the same time, Commander Soroosh and his group of Mujahideen also returned to Chayab'. They were Jami'at Mujahideen who lived away from their home town because it was controlled by Hezb. Naturally the relationship between the two former adversaries was tense at the beginning. Commander Masood had several lengthy meetings with both commanders in Taliqan in late summer. Finally it was decided that an authorized commission appointed by the SC leadership should travel to Chayab to assess popularity of each group—and hold elections if necessary-- and appoint general commander, governor, ' mayor, etc. accordingly.
Rustaq
Unlike Chayab, Rustaq - especially its old town — has been severely damaged during the years of Jehad. This fact is evidence of heavy fighting that took place in the area. Destruction of Aadina Mosque, a section or which was about 800 years old, and heavy
damages' to Hezrat Waqef shrine must be included in the list of heinous crimes committed by the Russians and their puppets in Afghanistan. Rustaq Mujahideen's courage and heroism can be gauged from the fact that their trenches in the heights west of the Rustaq town used to be only a few hundred meters away from the Russians' main military base in the area.
The old town of Rustaq was liberated by Mujahideen following the withdrawal of the Red Army troops in Spring 1989. The new town, however, was in the hands of the communist militias until this summer. When Khwaja Ghar was conquered for the second rime, SC's artillery was rapidly deployed in Rustaq. After two days of bombardment, and heavy casualties to the regime forces, deputy commander of the militia contacted Mujahideen for defection. This caused a disarray in the ranks of the regime forces and led to their complete defeat
Construction of the new town of Rustaq began about 20 years ago on the basis of an urban plan. It has wide streets, large squares, and relatively modem houses. It seems, however, that development of the town was extremely slow after the 1978 coup. After its liberation. Mujahideen moved their headquarters there and requested the people to hold "days of bazaar" in die new town instead of the old town.
General commander of JIA Mujahideen in Rustaq is Mula Piram Qul. He is only 28 years old. He began Jehad at the age of IS when he was in grade seven of high school. Because of his courage and leadership qualities, he became a command er at the age of 21. Like many other commanders of the territory beyond Kokcha, Piram Qul was associated with Hezb Islami at the beginning. As he relates himself, after observing the crimes of Nadir, Hezb's Rustaq general commander who is wondering in Badakhshan nowadays, he joined the SC of JIA four years ago. i
I found Mula Piram ,Qul an energetic, serious, sincere, frank arid knowledgeable young man. He admires Masood who showed the real face of Jami'at, otherwise Samad had made the people hate it He has some friendly complaints against JIA lead ership in Peshawar, because they not only withhold sending any kind of assistance but even refrain from sending a letter. Nonetheless, he says, he is ready to fully comply with any order issued by the leadership.	;'
Mullah Piram Qul seems very interest ed in construction and education. He shows the reconstructed government building, which were destroyed or damaged during the war, to his guests with especial enthu siasm. He has established 18 elementary schools in the area under his control. He has tried to pursue his own education de spite engagement in war and administrative matters. He still receives religious education from a religious scholar. Nonetheless, he calls himself a layman and says future Afghanistan needs "cultured people" for ad ministration and development, and he is ready to serve them.