AFGHANews Vol7, No 7, April 1,1991, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Sayyed Mahyuddin Sayyad
Sayyed Mahyuddin Sayyad, Jami'at commander in Teshkan Valley of Badkhshan, leads more than 1500 armed Mujahideen in Teshkan side-valley. He is know as Wakil Sahib because he was a member of parliament during the time of the king.
Here are some of his famous operations:
•In 1979 his Mujahideen took a leading part in the attack on Keshm District which resulted in the liberation of that valley. The Mujahideen seized 400 guns. Six of his Mujahideen were killed in this operation. The center of Keshm remained under control of the Mujahideen for one week.
•In the same year, the communist regime launched an offensive from four directions on Teshkan . His Mujahideen fought well. The enemy suffered heavy casualties and its moral fell. The enemy evacuated Keshm.
He took part in operation against Taliqan which resulted in the freedom of that city in the fall of 1979. After one week regime troops recaptured the city.
•In 1980, he and Damullah Sayyed Ameer launched a joint attack against the enemy garrison in Keshm. It proved to be a disastrous move. Eighty six Mujahideen .were killed and 204, including Commander Damullah, were wounded. The enemy also lost many soldiers.
•In 1980, Soviets launched an offensive on Teshkan Valley. Ground attack was accompanied with heavy bombing of valley by Russian jets. Fighting continued for 18 days. Soviet suffered casualties and failed root out the Mujahideen from Teshkan.
•In 1988, his Mujahideen took part in the attack which led the liberation of Keshm for the third time.
He survived an attempt on his live in
^ Berwi Seyan, Representative of the UN Secretary-General, MBM
Sayyed Mahyuddin Sayyad
1985 but one of his hands was paralyzed due to the injury he sustained in the incident
Sayyed Mahyuddin was bom 56 years ago in the village of Marghzar of Teshkan, a narrow valley parallel to the main Keshm valley. His father, Sayyed Shir Khan was a rich man.
Wakil Mahyuddin finished primary school in Teshkan and learned about Islam from Maulawi Saray in Keshm.
He has divided his valley into 13 administrative units, called Qarargah. He collect Islamic tax to finance his activities.
He has established nine Madrasas "religious schools" and 14 schools including one for girl school. He runs a good hospital.
He is a famous hunter and prominent horseman. Because of his love for hunting he is called Sayyad, the Persian word for a hunter.
He is a relatively wealthy man but live a simple way of life. This is the main reason for his popularity among his people. He has married four times and has nine children. He can be described as traditional leader.
News from
Moalim Rafiullah fc
Panjshir, Feb. 25 - The Education Committee of the Supervisory Council has opened 143 schools in the areas it controls in Kapisa, and north of Kabul. About 16,600 students study in these schools.
Sixty schools have been opened, including five high schools, seven secondary schools, 11 primary schools and the rest village schools (through third grade). A total of 6,475 students attend classes in Panjshir.
The last few months show a decrease in mine explosions because the local people are more careful than the past to avoid going into areas
suspected to have mines (or perhaps the snow and cold weather have restricted movement of peopleduring the winter).
In the incident of the ammunition explosion in Dasht-i-Rivat, in the upper part of the valley (reported in AFGHANews No 4, Feb. 15,1991) only two people were killed and one injured Earlier the Mujahideen had reported killing of seven people and injuring of many in the incident, which took place some months ago.
Training of teachers still continues, and this year more than 360 teachers will be taught new methods of teaching. The teachers also study religious subjects during their training.
| Pakistan, discussed the situation InB [Afghanistan on Mlrch ife';.. 3. ■ The UN envoy briefed the] Ishaq Khan about his recent talks I	the .Soviet -leaders conc^ntncl
■issue*	.......txj::	,
P • ........	I
■Ten Mujahideen ware kiflp/and one injured on March 16 when the truck carrying them hit a land minem Kishk areas of:. Surkhrod District, Nangarhar Province. The wounded Mnjahid wa croc rt to Peshawar for medicafti^
■I ••• |
■■■■■■ul regime announced a cease-fire;'^	rn||ii: of
iRamadhan, The regime defence minister said he had ordered his troops not use arms against the Mujahideen] if they were not attacked. The Mujahideen ...reeled the offer. Tp ■Kabul regime had armounced similar] cease-fires on other occasions.
mM ...
■Iran has agreed •
ARIANA planes to land in Bandar-i-1 I Abbas, Radio Kabul reported■■■!
I The Kabul regime had requested that the Iranians allow regime plates to land in Tehran and the southern city of Bandar-t-Abbas. No decision] has been made about flights of regime planes to Teheran. But regime| flights >o the Iranian port of the Persian Gulf is commercially very] important for the Kabul regime.
: I f— HH
Najibullah, the head of die Kabul] regime, has congratulated President ! Hashimi Rafsanjani of Tran on the ocl I casjoh'ipf the new..;year. 3T':	:"j§
In his message, he expressed B desire for further improvements in relations between the two countries during the new Afghan year; I I •••31;	•••
Shaikh Asif Mohsini, the leader of Harakat-i-Tslami Afghanistan, has I asked the Iranian president to return the properties of his organization! which were seized after Iranian aul thorities forced Harakat’^'ffice^n that country to close.
Shaikh Mohsini told reporters in [Peshawar that his party was not disj solved as the Hezb-i-Wahdat had!
I claimed.