No. 12
 AFGHAN NEWS
8-8-85                 P-^1
 7z7-85
 Russian forces landed Commando troops, with the. help of hundreds of helicopters all oyer liessa Awel (the upper part. of the valley) aiming at recapturing 120 government military officers and eleven high-ranking officers, who had been captured by Mujahideen in the third week of June from Pushghour enemy garrison, but. due to rais-calculation the Russian bombarded the area and killed all of them.
 The most remarkable point of this is that a contact to exchange the prisoners had been made between the Russians and Panjshir people on 26 June, arid bothsLde agreed to exchange their prisoners.
                „ This barbaric and inhuman behaviour by the Russians created an outcry from the families of the captured officers.
 On the same day, Mujahideen of Parandeli and Manjawoor jointly attacked the enemy bases at Nawalij which resulted in the destruction of 18 tanks, 138 vehicles loaded with ammunition, 6 D-30 and the killing of about ISO enemy soldiers.
26-6-85
HERAT_PR°VINCE
 A letter sent by Commander Esmae.il of Herat says that the Russian-1'RA troops in retaliation to their previous defeat, have carried out ano-
 ther air and ground operation in the provincial center as well as
 surrounding areas of. Herat city.

 The reports indicate that more than 600 tanks and APCs along with several Jet bombers, helicopters and other combat aircrafts participated in this operation. Long-range artilleries and ground missile have been shelling the target points of the city and its surroundings. The movements of the enemy forces has been from Darbi Kandahar heading toward the city of Herat. While passing the area of Saipulak near !l Kandahar bity, the Russian forces were suddenly attacked by Mujahid* een which resulted in the destruction of 5 tanks and the death of 50 Russian- DRA soldiers...
                                         * ‘ \
 I8-6-85
 The report says that when Russian forces reached Herat city ,they started searching the houses of the civilians. While advancing from Shahri Naw toward the upper part of the city called Baraman, the Russian forces were besieged by Mujahideen within the city and as a result of a severe clash between the two sides, 12 tanks of the invading forces were set on fire by rockets and all the personnel were killed . The dead bodies and wreckage of the tanks are still lying in the city. A Russian general was also among those killed . The Mujahideen hung his body in the city as a public example.
 20-6-85
 Three tanks and 1 military vehicle were destroyed in Saipulak and the same day, 8 Russian tanks with all personnel on board were wrecked by Mujahideen in Shahri Naw.