AFGHANews Vol7, No 22, November 15,1991, page 0
there was a clear feeling that peace brings about a better economic situation.
In the Mujahideen ranks, on the other hand, I was struck by the very high level of morale, higher than in earlier years, and a sense the regime was on the ropes and that now is the time to push rather than stand back.
Q. Did you see any sign of a softening of attitude on the part of the Mujahideen towards the Kabul regime?
A. There is no softening of attitude among the military' ranks towards the Kabul regime. The opposite is true. In terms of ordinary people, it is clear that Najib is no more popular than he has ever been. The general consensus is that he must go.
But at the same time, what you see in Taliqan is a greater level of interrelation between government-held areas and Shoora-held areas. For example, every day buses are coming from Kunduz and trucks are coming from Kabul. That sort of interaction between government-held zones and Mujahideen-held zones, I think, for many people is creating a feeling that the situation, as such, is not intolerable and dial life can go on in government zones and Mujahideen zones at die same time. Lines can be crossed more.
The whole situation has become much less clear-cut. These are the Mujahideen, and those are the government forces; they may fight each other, but I am a citizen of Afghanistan and I can be in Taliqan one day, in Kunduz the next" Whether that is a softening of attitude towards the regime is difficult to say. But there is a sense of more fluidity now than ever before.
Q. Did the Mujahideen have any hope of achieving peace through the UN five-point plan?
A. The average Mujahid could not tell you what Perez de Cuellar's five points are. In the Mujahideen ranks there was a sense that a military solution is still very possible. This is the main difference in perspective between the north and Peshawar, where people say a Mujahideen military solution is impossible.
Q. What were the people's reactions towards the changes in USSR?
A. The people are generally aware of the changes in USSR. To the average farmer and merchant in the Northeast, it basically vindicates their idea that communism was a discredited system. Communism could not survive, and this proved right
There is also a feeling that the Afghan Jehad played some contributory role in that regard. However, what is striking, in more specific terms, is the general level of ignorance about what is going in the other side of border across the river.
Q. Are optimistic about the return of peace in Afghanistan?
A. I'm not particularly optimistic. I think the regime in Kabul will change its form, but I do not see a happy coalition of very desperate Mujahideen forces taking over the reins of power and establishing a just Islamic regime in Afghanistan.
Dear Sir
Sal am Alaikum. I hope you and your family are well. I am all right and doing some writing for the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan.
Many thanks to your publication. We are able to do better work than we would have done without it. My compliments. I must say I have the same, doubts as you about negative symmetry on arms.
The reason for writing this letter is to inform you about a visit I made to Sl Petersburg, formerly Leningrad, on August 19. I went with Maria Soderberg and her husband Anders Sundelin to be present at the opening of her photo exhibition on Afghanistan in a gallery there. This was the first exhibition from the Mujahideen side in Russia. The exhibition was a great success and a lot of people saw the show. I think it will open the eyes of many people who don't realize that the "bleeding wound" is still bleeding. A big sign in the gallery displayed an open letter to Gorbachev and Yeltsin, asking them to stop supporting die Kabul regime and to help in removing mines.
I met with some people working for a newspaper for Afghanistan veterans. They were serious people. After returning home, I sent a lot of material on Afghanistan to than, including a copy of AFGHANews which they had shown great interest in receiving.
I promised them to ask you to include them in your subscription 1st. They work on a very tight budget and do not have money to pay the subscription bill. You know about the value of the ruble. It was 33 to one dollar when I was there and their monthly salary was rubles 350 (at the black market 52 rubles were exchanged for one US dollar). Sending your paper to them is great favor to them and the Afghan cause. I will give you the address of one of them, Alexey Karatetsky. He . is a photographer and journalist and had worked as a photographer employed by the Soviet army in Bagram ( the famous air base north of Kabul). We used a lot of his photos in the latest issue of Afghanistan Nytt, the magazine published by the Swedish Committee.
We arrived in Leningrad the first day of the abortive coup d'etat and the Russian revolution. The last thing in which I took part was standing on the roof of the Ministry of Interior and watching the pulling down of the Soviet Union flag. It was cut loose by the knife of a city council official. The old Russian flag was raised in its place after 74 years. You should have beat there. You would have enjoyed it as much as I did. An era of oppression was ended and the whole world we have been living in
disappeared in front of my eyes. A new Russia, hopefully better than before, was bom.
It seems that the change in Russia has started to affect Afghan problem. They have announced that they would not insist on Najib's role in the interim government. Tins, in combination with die great victories in the north and in Khost and hopefully Gardez, will be the key to freedom for Afghanistan.
It would be nice if we in the Swedish Committee were able to help in rebuilding a free Afghanistan, not only repairing the war damages.
Until we meet or hear from each other,
I wish you and your family and people all the best
Borje Almqvist
Stockholm, Sweden
Dear sin
Your profile of Mullah Naqibullah in the October 1 issue of "Who's Who in the Mujahideen" inspired both fond memories and a touch of guilt — especially your reference to the traditional Afghan hospitality he has shown visiting journalists.
I’ve been his guest twice, once in the autumn of 1988 and once earlier this year. In the thoughtless manner so characteristic of journalists. I've never bothered to send a formal note of thanks for the hospitality I was shown. I hope this letter will serve, although it's inexcusably late.
Mullah Naqib - better known, among his followers, by the nickname Mullah Gul — is a generous host who keeps a magnificent table. His guests were served heaps of hot pilau with sheep's-tail, pots of yogurt and gallons of buttermilk virtually every day I was there, to say nothing of endless delicately-cooked side dishes of savoury meats and spring vegetables.
More important, he is a down-to-earth and tolerant man with a worldly sense of humor. His company is a sure antidote for the poisonous treatment Islam and the ulema often receive in the western media.
Mullah Naqib faces many challenges, not least trying to maintain the momentum of jehad in an area which is politically chaotic even by Afghan standards, and where tribal, rather than ideological concerns motivate many local leaders. His personal qualities are his most powerful weapon in this regard. Please send him my best wishes.
John Jennings
Peshawar