AFCjHANews Vol5, No 1, January 1, 1989, page 3
AFGHAN e ws
P.O.Box 264, Peshawar- Pakistan Tel: (0521) 41381
Editorial
Talks with ex-king designed to divide Afghans
THE Soviets' move to meet the ex-king, proposal to start dialogue with Iran-based Mujahideen parties and their attempts to talk with individual commanders are designed to divide Afghans and complicate the situation further.
Taif talks between the Soviets and the Mujahideen should be considered as an important step towards achieving peace in Afghanistan through political means. But the late Soviet moves to contact other groups and individuals cast doubts and suspicions on the good intentions of the Soviets in finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan. Soviets have proposed to see the Shia Alliance in Iran. So Car, the leader of Mujahideen based in Iran have not accepted the Soviets' offer. This indicates the farsightedness of these leaders and their understanding of the evil designs of the Soviets.
Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, the current chairman of the Mujahideen Alliance, visited Iran on December 24 to talk to the Mujahideen leaders based in Iran to unify the position of the Mujahideen on the talks with the Soviets.
Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, Mr. Yuri Vorontsov, who led the delegation of the Soviets to the Taif talks has visited the ex-king in Rome and has discussed with him the Afghan issue. Meeting individvals who did not play a role in Jehad is an attempt to create differences among Afghans.
The ex-king who preferred growing roses in Italy to fighting for the liberation of his country which he had ruled for several decades, did not find it morally wrong to be used by the Soviet invaders. He has said on several occasion he will do what the people of Afghanistan want him to do, but did what was harmful to the unity of Afghans. His participation in the political life of Afghanistan is an internal issue which should not be discussed with the invaders.
The Soviets also are^trying to contact different commanders, refugee figures and individual parties to persuade them to participate in coalition government with the puppet regime.
The idea of a broad-based transitional government after the Soviets have left is acceptable to the Mujahideen. By this they mean that the Mujahideen, the refugees and the representative of all parts of Afghanistan should be included in the transitional administration.The non-communist people living under control of the regime could also participate.
But what the Soviets want is to create a new crises by creating new groups in the resistance camp. They want to make Zahir Shah a party in the broad-based government, not as an individual but as a representative of a group which will be organized later. They also talk about the participation of tribal leaders and different nationalities who are part of the present Mujahideen parties. But these new groupings will not come about peacefully and quickly. The purpose of them is not, as some people see it, an attempt by the Soviets to save face.lt is a real conspiracy to divide the Resistance.
Soviets know that the puppet regime in Kabul will not last long after they have withdrawn their troops. The only hope they have is the division of the Resistance. They think that if the Resistance is divided the regime could have a chance of survival. This is the real reason for Vorontsov's late initiatives.
The Mujahideen leaders should take notice of this conspiracy and take steps to neutralize them. The talks with Iran-based Mujahideen parties started very late but now they should continue until an agreement has been reached. The Mujahideen should include people from all nationalities and different groups of the Afghan society in their proposed interim government so that no room for Soviet maneuvers are left In the next rounds of talks, the Mujahideen should make it clear to the Soviet side that they can not continue to talk to the Mujahideen and at the same time contact individuals and other groups.
Turn to page (4 )
Peshawar gossips hurt Arab scholar
THE head of the political committee of Jami'at described Commander Ahmad Shah Masood as a military genius who has organized an exemplary military and political structure in the North-East of Afghanistan.
Dr. Najibullah Lafraii who accompanied Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani in his recent visit to the North was replying to a question by an Afghan journalist Dr. Lafraii said the biggest achievement of Commander Masood is introduction of an efficient organization. He has trained military cadres who not only have military knowledge but also have obtained a high degree of Islamic knowledge.
Commander Masood is a military genius who has frustrated several attempts of the Soviets in the; Panjshir valley . In addition to that, his capturing big garrisons in few hours of fighting is a good example of his great military skills. Dr. Lafraii said.
He added that Masood has shown great skill in the political field as, well He has organized the Supervisory Council of the North.
Regarding the late propaganda launched by some Mujahideen circles against Jami'at and Masood, Dr. Lafraii said: "We have already rejected these baseless charges. These charges are not new".
Dr. lafraii repeated a conversation between Commander Masood and Abdullah Ezam, an Arab scholar and a staunch supporter of the Mujahideen which took place during their recent trip to Panjshir Valley:
"Once I (Abdullah Ezam) considered you (Masood) a big enemy because the people in Peshawar described you to me as a Maoist and as a Western agent. Later when some honest Arab brothers met you, I started to think that I was mistaken. Now that I have met you I know how great my mistake was. Now I have become so suspicious about gossip in Peshawar that if they tell me the milk is white, I will not believe it (before seeing it myself)".
It should be added that a few days ago an article in Frontier Post quoting "reliable sources" alleged that Masood and Jami'at had made a secret deal with Soviets.
Later the leader of one of the parties, whose enmity with Masood is old, alleged similar charges without going into detail.
I