AFGHANews Vol 6, No 7, April 1,1990, page ©
Masood sees Hezb deal with Khalq as harmful to Jehad
Commander Ahmad Shah Masood recently gave two interviews to Awan Ebrahim, correspondent of the Middle East News Agency and Al-Hayat, a newspaper published in Paris and Cairo. We present the combined text of the two interviews:
Q. Were you aware of the coup?
A.We were aware of the coup and one month ago we published the details of the first coup attempt in our newspaper "Shoora".
Q. What is your stand on Tanai's coup?
A. I am opposed to the unholy alliance between Hezb and Tanai and consider it harmful to Islam and Afghanistan.
Q. What will be the short-term and long-term consequences of the late coup?
A. As a result of the coup, Najib lost some of the political credibility that he had gained; and militarily, he became weaker. Najib has to purge pro-Tanai people from the army and other organizations. This will weaken the regime further.
Hezb's alliance with the Khalq faction inflicted hehvy damage to the Islamic image of Hezb (Hikmatyar). Most of the people now believe that the aim of Mr. Hikmatyar is to reach power by any means, not the formation of an Islamic government
Hezb Islami will be isolated in Afghanistan and will lose the support of other Islamic movements. There is a strong possibility that Hezb will face internal divisions. .
Q. Will your fight against both the Khalqis and Parchamis not unite them?
A. Ideologically both the Khalq and Parcham factions are communist. Both factions have committed many crimes and one can not be chosen over the other. The recent coup was. the action of a group of Khalqis under Tanai. Watanjar and Pakteen, the two other famous-Khalqi leaders, are Najib's defence and interior ministers, and their cooperation with Najib continues as in the past
Q. If Najib becomes weak will you
support him (Tanai)?
A. We were opposed to Najib and are opposed to him (Tanai). Our opposition to him will continue until Najib and the communist regime are ousted and an Islamic government is established.
Q. Do you think that the recent coup has weakened Dr. Najib?
A. Yes. The recent coup has weakened Najib politically and militarily.
Q. Do you forsee another coup attempt by Tanai people?
A. As far as I know, the pro-Tanai forces have been weakened. There is little possibility of a new attempt by them.
Q. Can' the officials of the Kabul regime participate in the future government of the Mujahideen?
A. There are different types of people within the regime.We are opposed to those who are not Muslims and have people's blood on their hands. The rest can participate in the government.
Q. Is it possible for you to solve your differences with Hikmatyar?
A. In the past we have tried to solve our differences with Hikmatyar through negotiations. Unfortunately our approach was not reciprocated. But now that Hezb Islami and the Khalq faction undo- Tanai have made an unholy alliance, the situation has changed. As long as this unholy alliance exists we will not deal with Hikmatyar.
Q. Some people say you want to establish a government controlled by Tajiks. Is it true?
A. This is part of the enemy propaganda designed to mislead the Muslim people in other parts of Afghanistan and outside it. We reject favoring one group over others, in all forms. Our aim is the formation of an Islamic government.
Q. You have not launched any big operations for a long time. How long
Turn to page (2 )
March 27,1990
mi
Area/Tem. in C°	H	L
Kabul	10	9
_ Rain 4 mm
North Salang	-3	--I0
rain 13mm , snow 160 cm
Jabulseraj	13	4
rain 1mm*
Chekhcharan	6	-5
Shebirghan	19	7
Mazar-i-Sharif
Lashkargah
20	7
21	7
Herat	16	5
Jalalabad	22	13
Faizabad	13	5
PfeCp	us puBCisfi
WgMMfaasI
TCease send your donations to the fottcnoing account number:
JT2&VD Account Ofp. 735-37 CHaBiS ‘BanJ^Ltd.
‘Te.fdtaC BaCa, Peshawar (Pakistan