AFGHANews Vol6, No 13, July 1,1990, page Q
Editorial
V.
Signs from war fronts encouraging
Recent Mujahideen gains on the battlefields are encouraging. Should they maintain momentum, the military situation will develop favorably for the resistance, with a healthy impact on the political situation.
The communist supply convoy to Kandahar has been stopped in Ragistan, between Kandahar and Helmand for two months. The enemy's repeated attempts to open the road have failed . Despite hot weather, aerial bombardment and flat terrain, the Mujahideen prevented the convoy from reaching the city of Kandahar, and inflicted heavy casualties on it. If the Kabul regime succeeded in its mission, it would have gained propaganda leverage against the Resistance.
The bravery of our Freedom Fighters against the repeated attacks on regime forces in Paghman, 20 kilometers west of the city of Kabul, is a remarkable achievement. The Mujahideen launched attacks from that vantage point against regime targets in Kabul. The Kabul regime attempted in vain to push the Mujahideen out of the area. Attacks were launched and claims were made that the resistance was thrown from the Paghman Valley. The Mujahideen still control major parts of Paghman and continue to harass regime military installations in Kabul. Fighting between Mujahideen and regime forces still continues in Paghman to this day.
The liberation of one sub-district and two districts is also a good development for the Mujahideen. The Istalif sub-District was liberated some weeks ago. Qarabagh District was liberated a week ago. They are situated in Kabul province, only 30 kilometers from the city of Kabul.
Chemtal District in Balkh Province was also recently liberated by Mujahideen forces. In this liberation, Jami’at Islami played a key role.	-
An important factor in achieving these victories was the unity of action among the Mujahideen. Should the Mujahideen retain this unity, they have the; potential to raise the level of fighting against the Kabul regime with available resources.
Military victories are very important to the Mujahideen for various reasons. The Kabul regime claims that the majority of commanders have stopped fighting the regime and are inclined towards compromise with it.
The people of Afghanistan, who supported the Mujahideen in their struggle, need assurance that the Mujahideen can win militarily. They expected a Mujahideen victory after the Soviet troops withdrawal. Failure to meet supporter’s expectations created doubts about our abilities. Through military achievement, the Mujahideen can rebuild confidence in themselves. Such assurance is necessary to retain outside support.
The Mujahideen victories will also decrease the Soviet's confidence in the ability of their puppet to retain power. Once the Soviets realize the intrinsic weaknesses in their client government, they might give a second thought to further investment in Najib. It could pave the road to a political solution, in which the right of Afghans to self determination is guaranteed.
I
Panjshir During the War is the title of a book recently published by the young Afghan writer, Abdul Hafiz Mansoor.
The bode, written in Dari - the native language of the writer, is 171 pages, supplemented with rare pictures of the people involved in the struggle.
The writer, bom in the Panjshir, chose to write about the fighting in that area in the early years of the war. He interviews fighters and commanders involved in the war, gleaning information about their experiences. After taking refuge in Pakistan, he often traveled to the Panjshir, keeping in touch with developments in the valley.
The first chapter of the book deals with the Panjshir's distinct geographical structure and its people. Following chapters describe in detail the 1975 Panjshir uprising against Daud, including names of most of those involved in it.
The accounts of the 1979 uprising against the communist regime undo* the leadership of Masood sets the main theme of the rest of the book.
The writer reviews seven offen sives launched against the valley, tactics used on each side, and casualties.
The Panjshir's importance as < Mujahideen base and the exemplary organizational structure of the Mujahideen is discussed briefly.
The humanitarian aspects of the war are not forgotten. The plight of the refugees during the seventh offensive is discussed in full detail, as the author was among them.
The writer sheds light on the 1983 cease-fire between Masood and the Soviets, giving reasons for the one year arrangement.
One might criticize the writer for his lack of objectivity. As a young child he saw his civilian relatives gunned down by Soviet troops without reason; his village totally destroyed. Criticism of the Soviets comes naturally to him.
Such a small weakness does not decrease the value of his honest attempts to portray the heroic struggle of the people of the Panjshir Valley against a ruthless super power.
For a high-school graduate, a book of such quality is a major achievement
The book can be ordered from
Jami'at Political Office
P.O. Box 264 G.P.O, Peshawar.
Its price outside Pakistan is 5 US $
including mailing costs.