AFGHANews Vol 8, No 17, September 1,1992, page ©
Jami'at commander murdered in Faryab
Hafizullah Arbab, the chief-commander of Jami'at in Faryab Province," was killed by Pahlawan Rasool, an ex-militia commander, two weeks ago.
Rasool is a member of the newly formed National Islamic Movement headed by General Dostum.
Hafizullah Arbab led more than 2,000 armed Mujahideen of Jami'at in the center and districts of Faryab.
Arbab, 43, was bom in Almar sub-District into a wealthy Uzbek family. He joined the Mujahideen after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Being a good leader, he expanded his influence and increased the number of his Mujahideen.
In recent years, he joined the Supervisory Council of JamVal and remained till the last day of his life.
Arbab had built Madrasas (religious schools) and schools and was assisted in his daily work by a group of religious scholars.
After the fall of the communist regime, Arbab came to Kabul to meet with the Jami'at leader and Commander Masood, and reLumed to Faryab after a few days.
Rasool, an ex-mililia commander, considered Arbab an obstacle to his ambitions and wanted to eliminate him. A peace meeting was formed to resolve thb differences between the two rivals. Rasool aiTested Arbab while-he was attending the meeting and two days later executed him in public.
Hearing about Arbab's arrest, his brother Abdul Manan took Arbab's family and 2,000 of his Mujahideen in a convoy of 30 trucks and sought ref-
uge in Badghis Province. The tfagic death of Arbab was a great loss to the Mujahideen.	'
Pahlawan Rasool, the murderer of Arbab, joined the Mujahideen of Harakat Inqilab of Mohammadi after the Soviet invasion. Very soon he established contact with the regime and began to work for it. The first crime he committed was handing over Mullah Mohammad Amin, a scholar and deputy leader of Harakat to the regime. Amiri was killed in Pul-i-Charkhi jail.
Rasool also handed over a French photographer and two of his Afghan guides to the government.
He was engaged in fighting against the Mujahideen of Jami'at and harakat and is known for his cruelty against Pushtoon,
Ironically, he was on good terms with Gulabzoy, a Khalqi leader, and through him established close relations with the Soviets. The Soviets provided him with funds, arms and ammunition directly. This helped Rasool to spread his influence in the province.
Rasool supported Tanai's coup against Najib. His Khalqi connection also brought Rasool close to Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar. With his blessing Nasim, the commander of Hezb, was able to spread his influence in the province.
Pahlawan Rasool, an Uzbek, joined the Islamic National Movement of General Dostum along with Nasim, the commander of Hezb at the start the current year. Rasool is famous for his cruelty and ruthlessness against the Mujahideen.
Public Library escapes looting
the Public Library of Kabul, as well as the National Archive and Museum, has been lucky to escape destruction and looting during the recent disturbances.
The head of Public Library, Ghulam Farooq Neelab Rahimi, said that the, Mujahideen protected his library, Which has 500,000 books.
Around 150,000 documents of historic importance and 13,000 handwritten books are kept in the National Archive, which have remained intact during the recent disturbances.
Rabbani appoints 2 VicePresidents
President Rabbani has appointed Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi and Mawlawi Mir Hamza as his deputies.
Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi, the leader of-Harakat Inqilab Islami, is a prominent traditional religious scholar. He is a Pushtoon from Logar Pifovince and is known as a moderate politician.
Mawlawi Meer Hamza is a .member of Jami'at Islami who completed his studies in Islamic Sharia in Saudi Arabia. He is a Pushtoon from Ghorband District, Parwan Province.
Deputy Minister attends NAM pre-summit
Minister Of State for Foreign Affairs Dr. Najibullah Lafraie flew to Peshawar on August 26, on his way to Jakarta to attend the preparatory meeting of the Non-Aligned Movement summit on August 28.
This was the first flight to a foreign country from Kabul airport after Hezb Islami began roexeting the airport at the beginning of the month. Flights to Mazar-i-Sharif were never disrupted.
Accompanying Dr. Lafraie was Abdul Mohammad Shogufan, director for UN and international organizations in the Afghari Foreign Ministry.
Dr. Lafraie said Afghan interim President Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani may also attend the NAM summit which is scheduled for September 1.
The third member of the Afghan delegation to the NAM conference was Seddique Saljuqi, who is already in Pakistan, Dr. Lafraie recently replaced Saljuqi as the minister of state for foreign affairs and deputy foreign minister. Saljuqi has been posted as Afghan ambassador to Egypt
Dr..Lafraie said the Afghan ambassador to Indonesia would join the delegation in Jakarta to raise its strength to four.
Dr. Lafraie visited Australia at the end of the sumiriit to talk to officials of the Australian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He briefed them on the politi cal and military situation in the coun try, especially the situation in Kabul. He asked the government of Australia to send humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan.
Dr. Lafraie also met with members of the Afghan community in that country and informed them of the situation in their homeland.
Help us publish
AFGHANews!
J ' _ x
Please send your donations to:
Account No. 55088 Bank Millie Afghan Wazir Akber Khan Bra. KABUL - AFGHANISTAN