plot unearthed
A plot to assassinate Commander Ahmad Shah Vlasood was uncovered by the security authorities of the Supervisory Council (SC) three weeks ago.
Three people have been arrested in this connection. According to an SC source, the culprits are residents of Takhar who worked in the police department of the city. They have revealed their connection with Commander Bashir, a fmous Hezb commander in the north.
"Documents and weapons proving their involvement in the plot have been captured and they arc being interrogated by the SC authorities," the source said.
Jami'at has raised the issue with Hezb leadership in Peshawar because some months ago the two parties agreed to address their differences through negotiations. A joint committee to address these problems between the two parties was established when the agreement was signed.
Informed sources say Masood is eager to follow the election program that the two parties had agreed and the plot has not changed his stand on the agreement
AIG Embassy angers Kabul
The Kabul regime has condemned the decision of the Sudanese Government to establish diplomatic ties with the Afghan Interim Government (AIG).
The Kabul regime claims that Sudan had agreed to maintain secret contacts with the Kabul regime and offered to mediate between Kabul and the Mujahideen.
While the anger of the regime about the opening of the Mujahideen embassy in Khartoum is understandable, it looks odd to believe that Sudan would have indulged in KGB style secret talks with Kabul.
When a Kabul diplomat faces a diplomat from another country in a cocktail diplomatic party and says hello to the regime diplomat, out of politeness, the regime media call it a secret meeting of high importance! The meeting between regime and Sudanese officials might have been of this nature.
%g§w£ iwmgt
m tfe stmm

The regime's television has that the UN is providing financial assis-opened a window to the out- tance for the lodging and transportation side world through which one of these people. It seems that the Kabul can catch a glimpse of living regime embassy in Tehran and its con-conditions in the besieged capi- sulates in other cities of Iran are very tal and the way Its communist active and the softening of Iran's policy rulers run their business.	towards regime helps the program.
A few months ago satellite was used to feed TV signals to different parts of Afghanistan. This is why one can watch the regime's TV in Peshawar with help of satellite antennae. The use of satellites for broadcasting TV signals shows the deep commitment of the Soviet Union to support the Kabul regime and the importance that Kabul and Moscow attach to the propaganda side of the war. The Soviet Union pays the expenses of the project and the Kabul regime uses the TV to promote its national reconciliation program.
Recently, Kabul TV showed the proceedings of the regime national assembly in which the Prime Minister, Khaliqyar, gave the report of his government work. The representatives expressed their views about the performance of the government. Most of the speakers complained about red tape, bribery and discrimination within the government. Almost all of them complained about high prices which had made life miserable For the people. Several members spoke against discrimination against minority nationalities and objected to privileges given to party members (PDPA members) and some units of the regime army.
It was interesting to see that many of those sitting in the regime national assembly claimed to represent the people of districts controlled by the Mujahideen where the regime has no presence.
The representative of Bamyan was asking for formation of a 'temporary cell' of the Bamyan Province in Kabul or Parwan. The Kabul regime has established many of such 'temporary cells' for liberated districts and provinces and these cells are located either in Kabul or in neighboring cities controlled by the regime.
The Kabul TV reports the return of refugees from Pakistan and Iran regularly but returning refugees from Iran get the most of the TV’s coverage. The returning refugees are lodged in Peace Guest House' in Herat and then flown to Kabul and other cities. It is believed
International seminars, organized with the help of UN, are the events used for propaganda reasons. In these seminars in addition to Soviet scholars delegates from Iran take part giving them an international color. Iran seems in favor of cultural exchange with Kabul.
The Kabul regime also tries to give an impression that it has given more freedom to Shias in Afghanistan than the past. Events in mosques belonging to Shia community are covered on regime media; the shrine of Hazrat-i- Ali (the fourth Caliph of Islam for whom Shias show special respect) in Mazar is being expanded and some Shia scholars have been given important positions in the ministry of religious affairs.
The regime TV shows a military documentary film about the achievements of the regime army every night. Medals are distributed among the personnel of armed forces and every supply convoy reaching Kabul is called a major victory for the regime army. Regime officers and soldiers interviewed boast about their achievements and call themselves defenders of Islam and die motherland. It is amazing to see that the Kabul regime possesses a large fleet small and medium size transport planes, used to take supplies to many destinations in the country. Differences between Mujahideen parties are. highlighted and contradictory statements by Mujahideen leaders are fully exploited. .
The Kabul TV has some entertainment program which include songs by Afghans, showing Indian films and Western music and dance.
The basic problem of the regime TV is lack of electricity. Leave alone the countryside, even most part of the capital is facing days of power cut. Despite all these shortcoming the propaganda of the regime have had an affect because the Mujahideen have no means and plan to counter it effectively.