AFGHANews Vol6, No 15, August 1,199Q, page©
Muslims are awakening in
Two new parties have been formed in Tajikistan, Soviet Union, to struggle to secure the economic, social . political and religious rights of the people of the republic.
One of the parties is called Tajikistan Democratic Party and the other Tajikistan Islamic Party.
The Islamic Party publishes a paper called Hedayat (guidance) which is very popular among Muslims all over Central Asia.
These parties want to enter the Republic Parliament. The- communist party of Tajikistan has asked for a dialogue with the newly formed parties. The new parties have linked holding talks with the resignation of the communist party leaders of the republic who are blamed.for the killing of demonstrators at the beginning of the year.
In an article under the tittle "Islam alive and well in Doshanbe" Yaqub Zaki writes in Crescent International that at first glance, Doshanbe does not look like a Muslim city. No minaret is in sight. The weekly holiday is Saturday and Sunday, not Friday, the object of which is to prevent people attending the mosque. The statues in the city square are of non-Muslims and the names of famous buildings are un-Islamic.
But the first impression never tells the whole story. Off the main Boulevard we entered a mosque for Eid prayers. A large number of youths were among the worshippers. Someone said youth interest in religion is not new. Young people have always practiced religion but in the past they did it secretly so as not to jeopardize their carreer.
The mosque we attended was one of the 65 mosques operating in. Tajikistan. On average one mosque is opened each month. The opening of a mosque does not pose any architectural problem. Most mosques were turned into store houses under communist rule. They need some repair.
Under Stalin 35 mosques operated in Tajikistan which was reduced to 17 under Khruschev. Perestroika reached Central Asia late. Until one and half years ago only 17 official mosques were open.
Alongside the official mosques, there were 1,666 underground mosques operating in the republic. We visited one of these mosques which looked like a chaikhana, tea house, and was concealed from the road.
There are also underground Madrasa (religious schools) where students study at night using tapes to perfect their knowledge of Arabic.
The Imam of Yaaqoub Charkhi mosque told us the horror stories of up to two years ago. Muslim school children were forced during Ramadhan to drink water. Soviet Muslims feels that they have just awakened from a nightmare.
The deputy commander of Central Asia Border Guards said 200 armed Afghans have crossed the border into Tajikistan to create law and order problems in the republic.
A Tajik journalist told the BBC by telephone from Doshanbe, the Tajik republic capital, that the army was fabricating the story to justify its presence in Central Asia. He said the incursion of such a large number of people into Tajikistan is not possible.
UN officials told not to enter liberated areas from cities
Commander Ismail Khan of Jami'at has asked UN relief officers working in the areas controlled by the Kabul regime not to enter the Mujahideen areas.
In a letter, to Sadruddin Agha Khan, UN Coordinator, he said the Mujahideen do not approve the entry into Mujahideen territory of officials of organizations working with the regime.
The letter said some time ago three UN officials working inside the city of Herat entered the Mujahideen territory in the eastern part of Enjeel District without prior contact with the Mujahideen. They were captured by
the Mujahideen and were released after the UN office in Enjeel pleaded for their release.
The letter warns that such unauthorized entries could lead to unwanted incidents. The officials involved might be hurt because the Mujahideen cannot differentiate between the enemy and un-authorized UN officials.
Ismail Khan says if the UN wants to provide humanitarian assistance in the areas controlled by the Mujahideen it should do it through the UN office in Enjeel which is located in the liberated area.
RADIO MOSCOW TERMS IRAN'S AFGHAN POLICY CONFUSING
Radio Moscow has criticized Iran's position on Afghanistan saying that Tehran's Afghan policies have never been coherent, Iranian paper Kayhan Hawai wrote.
Referring to the visit to Tehran of the UN Secretary General’s special envoy for Afghanistan, Radio Moscow said Iran's key role in the issue was understood the world over, including in UN circles. The prospect of a settlement of the Afghan issue to a large extent depends on Tehran's stand, said the radio commentary, adding that the complexity of the problem was that Tehran's policies towards Afghanistan were not consistent. It said, for instance, the Islamic government of Iran does not recognize the Kabul regime and at the same time is in no hurry to break offdiplomatic relations with it.
The radio Moscow commentator, Yari Andriev, added that Tehran claims to support a political settlement to the Afghan issue but still continues to arm and finance the opposition groups (Mujahideen).
The commentator also said Tehran has announced its backing for a regional conference on Afghanistan with the participation of die interested parties, including the Soviet Union and Afghanistan the Kabul regime) but the Iranian leaders seem not to rule out the military victory of the Mujahideen if they become united.
Indian minister visits Kabul
The Indian Deputy Foreign Minister reached Kabul on July 22 for a two-day official visit. He extended an invitation to Najibullah to visit India in the near future.
Benazir discusses Kashmir,Afghanistan
The Prime Minister of Pakistan discussed situation in Kashmir and Afghanistan with the leaders of five Islamic countries in the Middle East and North Africa. The purpose of the trip was to inform the leaders of these countries about situation in Kashmir prior to the OIC foreign ministers meeting in Cairo to be opened ext July 31.