i--------------------- AFGHANews	Vol4/Ho	16,	August	D,i988,	Page	4
•f
I who's who in the Mujahideen
I
Commander Abdul Hay
ABDUL Hay Hsqjoo ^as born 36 years ago in a village called Dooabi belonging to Nahrin District of Baghlan province. His father,.
.■ Abdul Aziz., was a farmer I busy in agricultural ] activities in their native village.
Abdul Hay picked up bis primary education in a | mosque school and then was admitted to Nahrin Lycee where he studied upto 10th grade. Afterwards, he went to Kabul and got admission in the Kabul Lycee of Art. specializing in the subject.
After successfully completing the Lycee grades, he became a teacher Before the Soviet invasion he came in touch with the then
Islamic Movement and later at the beginning of the invasion joined the Mujahideen. He made his first trip to Pakistan with Ahmad Shah Masood in 1975-
" In 1978 he was working as an assistant to the late Zabihuitah Khan who was then general commander of four provinces of Balfch, Kundue, Baghlan and Samangan,1' said Abdul jalil, his representative in Peshawar, Early in 1980, the leadership of Jami'at appointed him as the general commander in the Brighton province.
A dynamic commander, he soon formed and organized with great effort. Mujahideen forces which later turned into one of the important
organized fronts of Afghanistan with .strong military and
administrations! discipline.
He is also a noted figure among the commanders who formed the Supervisory Council of the North (SON) and Is an active member of its Supreme Council,
Among the remarkable achievements of Commander Abdul Hay on the war fronts are the capture of the Nahrin’s 20th Military Division in 1986 followed by the fall of Andarab, Nahrin and Burka districts; complete take-over of all militia fortifications in Shashan and Tal Mir Ghazl areas belonging to Andarab district in 1987 and lately the assignment of combat units in the capture of Kaiafgan, Farkhar and Keran Menjan enemy strongholds.
From iust the capture of Nahr in. he seized more than 3000 light and heavy weapons.
1
Soviet minister reaffirms support
Kabul regime
for
THE Soviet Foreign Minister flew into Kabul for an un-expected meeting with the Kabul regime leaders to reassure them of the Soviets' continued support.
Announcing his visit to Kabul, the Soviet News Agency Tass did not reveal more details about the purpose of Shevardnadze s visit. A few days before his departure for. Kabul, the Soviet Foreign Minister met with the Pakistan Foreign Minister, Safeibzada Yaqoefe Khan in Moscow. He asked Pakistan to observe the Geneva accords and stop delivery of military supplies to the Afghan Resistance.
The visit came at a time when the Soviet Union, according to the Geneva.
accords, was supposed to withdraw half their troops from Afghanistan by the i 5th of August and the remainder by next February. Observers believe the visit, is partly aimed at reviewing and discussing the withdrawal deadline and reassure the regime of Soviet support.
At the conclusion of his four day meeting with the regime officials, the Soviet Foreign Minister and the Communist regime issued a joint statement warning that appropriate action would be taken to stop interference in the Afghanistan's internal affairs/
As the Soviets are about to pull out half their troops under the accord obligations, the regime is getting worried and becoming unstable in the
face of the growing Resistance grip on the capital. As a result, some Western countries have brought home their embassy staff in Kabul.	<
Meanwhile, the Soviet	I
journal Red Star' writes that	?
the Kabul regime, in order to defend the capital against	!
the Mujahideen attacks, has formed a new military unit from the armed forces. The unit which is composed of military personnel; civilians . including volunteer women, has been given the task of protecting the Presidential Palace, Naiib's residence and the capital itself. This was as a result of the Mujahideens' escalation of fsequent attacks on Kabul from nearby positions.