..‘..V..y....*“*“....
Vol 6, No 13	July	1,1990
r
Scholars advise AIG on polls
A delegation of former ranking Afghan officers, now in exile, have reached Peshawar to discuss various aspects of the Afghan problem with the AIG, in a bid to find a solution to the problem.
The delegation has been invited by Prof. Mojaddidi, President of the AIG. Invitation letters were sent to 30 Afghans in Europe, America, Middle East, Iran and Pakistan.
The delegates include: former Prime Minister, Dr. Yousuf; former Deputy Prime Minister, Samad Hamid; former senior diplomat. Dr. Farhadi; former Minister, Kushkaki; and former diplomat. Dr. Abdul Hakim Tabibi. In the same time period, a delegation of the newly formed Wahdat Party, based in Iran, arrived in Peshawar for consultation with the AIG.
Holding elections for the formation of a broad-based government is the main topic on the agenda.
The delegations will discuss various aspects of the issue, trying to evolve formulas to deal with them.
If they agree cm a formula for a political solution, it will have a tremendous impact on the current situation, since most opponents to the Najib regime are represented.
Council doctors fight malaria
The Health Committee of the North Zone of SC has begun mosquito eradication in Taliqan city to protect people from malaria, the main problem in the area.
Taliqan is an agricultural area primarily producing rice. Still water provides an opportunity for mosquitoes to breed easily. This is the first effort to fight malaria since the Communist coup of 1978.
i • -m■ w •	1	1
The nine Iran-based Mujahideen parties are merged in a new organization called Hezb-e-Wahdat-i-Islami (Islamic Unity Party).
The new party was announced in Tehran, June 16.
A leader of the Wahdat party said in Peshawar the work to unify Shia parties started last Summer. He said the Shia parties have been able to solve their problems inside and outside Afghanistan.
It is believed that when the Shia parties were not given the representation they wanted in the Consultative Council in Rawalpindi, they decided to unite to strike a better deal for the Shia community in any political solution. The Rawalpindi Council formed the Afghan Interim Government,
banian authorities have played a key role in twinging unity among Shia parties.
Shia parties, like the Peshawar-based parties, are composed of traditional and radical groups. The unity of Shia parties might save as a model to unite Peshawar based parties. Abdul Ali Mazari hlas been appointed spokesman of the new party. Since the party
leader has not yet been announced, it might be run by a council rather by single leader.
Abdul Ali Mazari held a press conference in Peshawar on June 24, in which he outlined the election formula he brought with him. Mazari said instead of choosing a representative from each district, his party proposed choosing a representative for every 70,000 voters. Shia parties complain that the districts in Afghanistan are of different sizes. The former government created the districts to suit their politics.
He opposed any role of the OIC in supervising elections, and,.instead, proposed supervision of elections by the UN, Pakistan and Iran. He accused the OIC of harboring a bias, an indirect reference to the influence Saudi Arabia in that oiganization.
He opposed the participation of communists in the elections. When asked, Iran did not object to the participation of selected people from the Kabul regime. He said his party followed an independent policy.
Mazari said Zahir Shah could take part in the election if he wanted because he was a Muslim and an Afghan.
Supervisory Council, Wahdat party
to cooperate w
Representatives of the Supervisory Council (SC) of Jami'at and Hezb Wahdat Islami have agreed to coordinate military and political activities.
Hezb Wahdat Islami is a merger of nine Shia parties based in Iran. This new party7 was formed some months ago.
. The document signed by both sides say that unity among the Mujahideen organization is necessary. It attempts to deal with the conspiracies of the regime, to foil outsider's attempts at preventing the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, and to give
one another
a new life to the military and political activities of the Mujahideen.
The two sides have agreed to coordinate their political activities and to escalate the war against the regime. They have also decided to cooperate in the cultural field.
The document was signed by Mustafa Kazimi, a member of the Central Council of Wahdat party and Eng. Mir Husain, a member of the Political Committee of SC.
The two sides have agreed to prepare a meeting between the head of the SC, Ahmad Shah Masood and leaders of Wahdat party.
Ahmad Shah Masood has called the agreement a positive development which will benefit the people of Afghanistan!.