AFGHANews Vol 5, No 24, December 15, 1989, page ©
Editorial
Gorbachev follows Brezhnev's aggressive Afghanistan policy
December 27 marks the 10th anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
When in 1978, pro-Moscow communists took power in a military coup, they started to impose an alien way of life on the people of Afghanistan, who are deeply religious.
The people opposed the communists, and war between the people and the communist regime in Kabul began. The communists failed to suppress the popular uprising, and despite massive Soviet support and the presence of thousands of Soviet military advisors, the regime was nearly defeated.
The Soviet leadership sent the Red Army to prevent the people's victory over the tyranny of the communists. Hafizullah Amin, the head of the regime, was killed by die Red Army, and Babrak and Najib, who lived in exile in Eastern Europe, woe brought back and installed in Kabul.
Afghan people opposed the invasion and the new leadership. The claim of the Soviets, that they were invited by the Kabul regime, was not accepted by the Afghans and the rest of the world.
For nine long years the Afghan people fought the Soviet invaders, forcing the Soviet leaders to revise their policy and withdraw their troops.
This was an important victory for Afghans and all those who supported their cause, and a humiliating defeat for the Red Army and communist ideology.
The price that Afghans paid to protect their homeland, honor and freedom was very high. One million people died and 75 per cent of the villages were destroyed. Five million Afghans became refugees and about three million more were displaced inside Afghanistan.
This shows how Afghans value freedom and the right to self-determination. The Soviet troops had left Afghanistan by February 15, 1989, but the Afghans' struggle did not end. The withdrawal was a victory, but final victory was still to come.
Afghans had the.support of the world community in their struggle against the Soviet invaders. The moral, political and material support of friendly countries and individuals enabled the Afghans to carry out their Islamic duty of Jehad.for al-mosta decade.
The withdrawal of Soviet troops did not change the hostile policy of that country towards Afghanistan. Gorbachev still wants to dictate the political system in Afghanistan and to choose the rulers in Kabul.
If the people of Afghanistan had accepted the communist rule of Taraki and Amin, there would have been no need for the Soviet invasion.
Nine years of fighting and paying dearly for the cause of freedom had one goal and that was the right of Afghans to choose their leadership and political system.
The Soviets have now called the invasion illegal. How do they dare to give $400 million each month to a regime which is a product of that invasion?
The Soviet leadership has tried to improve its image by introducing domestic reforms and tolerance to the changes taking place Eastern Europe, but the so-called new thinking has not found a way to their Afghan policy. What they are interested in now is getting back their prisoners and supporting a bunch of murderers in Kabul to keep them in power.
This lack of flexibility in the Soviet Union’s Afghan policy is rooted in a deep sense of humiliation at their failure in Afghanistan.
Despite all the difficulties, the Mujahideen will defeat the puppet regime of Najibullah. It is only a matter of time before that will happen. Pouring money and weapons into Kabul will not guarantee the survival of a regime whose people
oppose iL
It is in the best interest of the Soviets to change their policy towards Afghanistan and abandon their hostile attitude toward the Mujahideen. If ten years of direct involvement could not defeat the Afghans, a few years of indirect involvement can not subjugate them.
Mujaddidi meets Bush
From page (1)
bassador to Kabul.
The ex-king ruled Afghanistan for four decades. Despite a poor economy and slow pace of development, his rule was relatively peaceful.
In 1973, he was deposed by his cousin. Prince Daud. Rivalry in the Royal family was exploited by the communists to depose the king when he was abroad.
The communists, who helped Daud in the coup, had shared government power with him. Daud was eliminated by the communists in 1978 when he wanted to improve his relations with the non-communist world.
. Zahir Shah's opponents in the resistance hold him responsible for communist mischief, who had freedom of action and organization during his rule.
In the absence of a military victory and with stalemate on the political ground, his name will always be on the list as a third option.
Mujahideen exchange prisoners with regime
Six Mujahideen prisoners have been exchanged with six regime prisoners in Gulbahar, Parwan province.
Four Mujahideen who were released had been sentenced to 20 years in prison, and two of them sentenced to death.
The six prisoners released by the Mujahideen were Communist Party members who were captured on different fronts.
The released Mujahideen were captured several years ago in the the city of Kabul on charges of cooperation with the Supervisory Council of Jami'al Islami. They are residents of Shamali.
The released prisoners can serve the cause effectively. Most of them are educated, and several years in jail consolidated their convictions in the cause. But the harsh life and torture during detention create many physical and psychological problems for the prisoners, and they usually need treatment after their release.