AFGHANews Vol6, No 14, July 15,1990, page 0
Modem technology made it possible for me to watch Kabul Television in Peshawar. A satellite dish attached to an ordinary television set serves the purpose.
Although I had spend eight years in Kabul, I had never watched a television program there. The first television station was built in Kabul by Prince Daud in 1977 and I had been exiled two years earlier.
Daud gave a good propaganda tool to the communists before he was toppled by them in April 1978.
I was thinking about a topic to write in the next issue of AFGHANews when a friend called and said he was in possession of a three hour video tape Tom a recent program from Kabul Television. Prof. Sayyafs party has had the means to monitor the Kabul regime television and the program was taped by that organization. I left aside every other work and started to watch the video tape. It was an interesting urogram of which I present a summery.
Kabul Television telecasts only in the evenings. It started with the recitation of holy Quran followed by a children’s program. AH the children were in special uniforms. Every child read a patriotic poem or sang a revolutionary song in praise of their homeland and peace. A Russian cartoon film formed the most interesting part of the program.
News and views were dominated by Najibullah's speeches, meetings of the PDPA , victories of the regime army, the return of the refugees and accusations against Pakistan and the US It was interesting to see the meeting of the Kabul branch of the party. No farmer and worker ware present in that meeting. All the members were wearing smart Western suits or military uniforms and from their faces one could guess safely that they were government officers working behind the desk. A few women were among the delegates.
Military news forms the major part of Kabul Television's programs. A film about the Paghman operation was shown. The cameramen interviewed many officers in the front. They claimed the capturing of many weapons and much ammunition from the Mujahideen, but the camera failed to show these claims. The regime televi-
sion showed the bodies of three martyred Mujahideen. Every soldier and officers interviewed talked about peace and the protection of the people but all the villages around them were destroyed and the warplanes still bombed and the tanks fired into the residential areas. No civilian population was shown on television. It seemed all the people had evacuated the area.
I had the chance to watch an interview with Rashid Dostom, the head a of notorious militia group. He is a young and well-built man with long moustaches. From the way he spoke it seemed that he was not an educated person. The regime has rewarded him with the rank of General. His forces are engaged in the Paghman fighting. The militiamen belong to Sayyed Mansoor of Kayan were also taking part in the Paghman operation. Militia forces form the backbone of the defense of Kabul. These militiamen played a key role in the support of Najib during Tanai’scoup.
The program showed the Sate Printing Press in Kabul. In Afghanistan the printing houses belong to the government. They Printing Press in Kabul print four dailies and more than ten magazines and weeklies. It also prints all the text books and propaganda literature of the regime.
The entertainment program of the television included songs by male and female singers. Singers wore heavy makeup and were dressed in fancy western clothes.
Looking from the television window, Kabul seemed a colourful and prosperous capital. Every body talked about peace even if they were busy killing people.
The regime television also showed a documentary film about the lapis lazuli mine in Badakhshan. The documentary was about a small statue made of Afghan lapis in Egypt thousands years ago.
Covering a journey from Pakistan to the lapis mine in Badakhshan it showed how the people dug the stone with, primitive tools and transported it to Pakistan on back or pack animals. The Kabul regime wanted to show that the Resistance was indulged in the "smuggling" of "National wealth". But the Resistance consider it a lawful trade supporting thousands of families in the liberated areas. •
Herat people!
need- food:#;
-	-	-	"	-	V//////Z'
Commander Ismail Khan has said shortages of food and poor economic conditions have made life for the Mujahideen and the people in liberated areas extremely difficult
In a letter to his representative in Peshawar he has said the prices of essentials commodities have reach such a level that the people can not afford to buy them.
One kilogram of candy is sold for 400 Afghani, one kilogram of tea 2,000 Afs., one pair of boots 40,000 Afs. and a pair of clothes 12,000 Afs., Ismail Khan wrote.
He said he Was not able to give a pair of clothes to his Mujahideen each year.
Ismail Khan said the Kabul regime exploiting the situation want to buy off people by offering them food and money.
He has asked the International re lief organizations to help the people of Herat, Badghis and adjoining areas to alleviate their pains.
Ismail Khan has drawn the attention of the Mujahideen leaders in Peshawar to pay urgent attention to the serious situation in Afghanistan. "They should fulfil their responsibilities towards their people who have fought so bravely against the infidels", he said.
Ismail Khan has expressed clearly the factthat acute economic problems can weaken the Mujahideen position in Herat unless something is doneurgent ly to correct the situation.
An oidinary officer of the regime receives an average 4,000. Afghan per month.
Kabul claims releasing Soviet prisoner of war
A Soviet prisoner of war has been remanded to Soviet custody by the Kabul regime recently, regime radio reported.
Muradov was captured in 1976 by the Mujahideen in Baghlan Province. The regime claimed that he was released by its security forces some time ago.
A similar statement by the regime two months ago also proved to be incorrect The Kabul regime claimed that its soldiers rescued a Soviet soldier near the Salang highway. The soldier had beat handed over to the Soviet of ficials in Kabul.