fifBHFW iSiiS 'JOL.iO, HO. 3, !/2,'!9e9, PRCE 2
   to give the news of disturbances m Pakistan in. reaction to the explosion
   The explosion was the work of W Al> I Communist Secret Services) and its purpose was to create tension between the refugees and the Pakistan people.
   The Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen immediately rejected the accusations and called the explosion "uh-isUmic" and ''against Afghan tradition of respecting the dead"
   This is not the first time that the puppets have tried to make propaganda out of blood ami flesh of innocent Afghans and Pakistanis Last year aiorte hundreds of bombs were exploded in. schools, buses, tea houses and market places in Pakistan. As a result of these explosions a iarge number of people (Afghans and Pakistanis! were either killed or wounded
   The real aim behind ail these terrorist actions sponsored by the Soviets is w destabilize Pakistan by creating tension between the Pakistani hosts and three million Afghan refugee guests. So far the brother people of Pakistan have foiled ail the evil designs of the enemies of Islam and have kept a good relationship with their refugee brothers and sisters and will continue u> do so in the future
   The Jalalabad explosion has given ammunition to some people in. Pakistan to incite the local population against refugees but they will definitely fail in their evil designs. For . those who have the slightest insight into the nature of Communist regimes; and in particular the nature of the puppet regime in Kabul and its leader (who has long years of experience in subversive activities! they will have no difficulty in understanding {.he reasons far which the regime indulged in such an inhuman act exploding bombs at the funeral ceremony of Khan Abdul Ghai&r Khan in Jalalabad
   In early January the enemy tried six times to re-establish some of the military posts which were captured by Mujahideen in Shaba in Jate December Finally, because of tne extreme pressure put an Mujahideen the enemy was able to set. up two posts on. January 4 "With the help of God. however Mujahideen recaptured the two posts at 4:00 p.m the same day They captured eight soldiers and seized eight AK-47s and a communication set. Some of the enemy troops were killed, but Mujahideen did not suffer any casualties.
                             FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS