-------:  ---  AFGHANews	Vol 5, No 13, July 1,1989, page 0
Escape from Kabul
Child of war
Nesar and his father went to an agreed point They were met by the driver of a truck. This truck was supposed to take Nesar and his father to the Mujahideen controlled areas outside die city of Kabul.
The driver had made a special room inside the truck. It was like a coffin. Nesar slipped into the box and the lid was tightly screwed. The box had holes through which fresh air came.
After concealing Nesar the truck moved to bus stand. It was loaded with goods and people. Nesar’s father seemed worried about the safety of his son. After some minutes he asked the truck conductor if his son was safe. It took the truck four and half hours to reach its destination. After unloading the goods the truck was taken to a private place where the lid was unscrewed and to the surprise of his father Nesar came out of it safe. After seven months of hiding Nesar was out of the besieged city of Kabul. Both father and son thanked Allah and paid a good sum to the driver who smuggled men from Kabul to the Mujahideen controlled areas.
'	esar	was	six	years	old	when
the communists took power through a military coup in 1978. He saw marches and meetings of the supporters of the regime who carried red banners and raised red flags. Revolutionary songs were sung by the students in their gatherings which had became part of the life of the students and government officials.
Nesar’s family always showed its displeasure with the new regime in private. They thought that the regime's economic and social programs were against their religious beliefs and traditions. They could not show their displeasure openly because the regime would have put them into jail and have killed them.
One year after the coup, people of the village, Shast, heard the news of an insurgency in the upper part of the Panjshir valley. Their morale soared by the news and they became hopeful for their freedom.
A few days later communist activists were seen preparing for war and the regime planes were seen bombing a town 10 kilometers away. It was the sign of the approach of the Mujahideen.
When the Mujahideen arrived at the outskirts of the town the commu-
nists escaped without putting up resistance.
Young Nesar went to the local government headquarters, now under the control of the Mujahideen, to greet the freedom fighters. Every where in villages and in mosques people talked about the courage of the Mujahideen and young children listened attentively to the stories.
After two. months the Mujahideen evacuated the town because of lade of ammunition and poor organization. Hie communist forces once again were in full control of the situation. The Mujahideen had retreated to the upper pan of the valley but remained active. The news of their activities pleased the people of the area who prayed for their victory over the communists.
T he first Soviet invasion of the
valley took place in March 1980. More than 300 tanks, armored cars and trucks participated in a week-long operation. The people of the valley were sad by the sight of the size of the enemy forces:
Some months before, the communists forces who had only six tanks, had forced the Mujahideen to retreat. The Mujahideen who were few in number and ill-armed were not thought able to survive such a big force.
Nesar was among the tens of children who saw the Soviet armored columns passing on their way to the uppo1 part of the valley. The sky was full of jets and helicopters. After seven days he saw that the enemy forces leaving the valley. The news reached the people that the Mujahideen had killed a large number of Soviet soldiers and had captured a lot of weapons. This was indeed good news to the people and they called it a miracle.
After the first invasion, the Mujahideen influence spread quickly. A large number of young people volunteered to fight and they were trained. Young Nesar was a witness to all these developments.
In th early 1981, the Mujahideen opened a school in the town and Nesar became a student
In peaceful societies, sportsmen and film stars are the ones who draw the attention of the young people the most A country engaged in a war for liberation has its own stars—the Mujahideen. Nesar and other children pretended to be Mujahideen. They made toy weapons
and played mode raids and ambushes.
To raise the moral of the Mujahideen the school administrator decided to form a team of singers who sang pro-Mujahideen songs.
Nesar had a excellent voice and a good memory. He became a leader of the chorus in his village. Local poets recited verse in support of the Jihad and the condemnation of Soviet invaders and their local communist supporters. The poems were composed into songs which were sung on different occasions. These songs were recorded and smuggled to the Soviet controlled cities. It was the best form of anti-communist and anti- Soviet propaganda which the Mujahideen ever used.
In a society where 90% of the people are not able to read and write listening to audio tapes is an effective way of getting the message. The sweet voices of children moved people and encouraged them to take side with the Mujahideen.
The Soviets always had one answer to all these activities. That was the use of force. They launched several offensives and repeatedly bombed the villages. The women, elderly and children were the prime victims of those indiscriminate actions. Hundreds of children died in air raids, artillery fire and mines. Hie rest left the town they loved because it was not possible to live their anymore.
Nesar was one of the children who took refuge in Kabul, the capital. His father was an old man, his brother lived in exile and he was the one to look after his family. He started to work in a bakery.
KLabul is full of child workers.
Only old people and children can work because the young ones are conscripted into the puppet army to fight the Mujahideen. Due to manpower shortage, the child workers are paid well.
From 1982 to 1987 Nesar worked in the bakery and sung his revolutionary songs in a low voice least no KhAD agent hear him singing.
Although Nesar was 17 years old, he had grown tall and strong. The official age of conscription was 20 but regime press-ganged children of 13 and above if they were strong enough to carry a gun. The regime's mobile conscription teams searched the houses, shops and other places.
Turn to page ( 4)