RFGHRH NEWS UCL III, NO. +, 15/2/' 190? PflOE 6
communist regime. Nov they have to decide one of two things: Either leave Afghanistan for Afghans and withdraw their forces or continue their colonial war against the people of Afghanistan by paying the military and political cost of it
                             SERVING COLONIAL POLICY OF THE SOVIETS
The sudden increase of tension on Indo-Pak border was the act of Rajiv Without any reason that country massed a lot of troops along the borders and forced Pakistan to take defensive measures.
This irresponsible act of Rajiv can be part of his collaboration with the Soviets to put pressure on Pakistan just before the Geneva talks on Afghanistan which will start at the end of November. Domestic problems could also be a reason for this artificial crises
Mass movement of civilians from the Indian side of border in occupied Kashmir was a deliberate policy of increasing the tension with real no ground for such action.
It is very amazing to see that a big country like India can be used as a Soviet pawn in its colonial war
                                 HUMAN FACE OF AFGHAN MUJAHIDEEN
                                              By KMukMb Sid digue
During my visit to Peshawar late in December 1986, the Afghan Mujahideen's biggest movement known as Jami'at Islami Afghanistan, which^is fighting in Panjshir, Badakhshan, Herat and other regions, placed its facilities at my disposal Within a very short time I covered a lot of ground and collected considerable material for my forthcoming book.
I interviewed Engineer Es'haq, the chief Political Officer of Jami'at. Two of his brothers have been martyred in the resistance against the Soviets. A third brother is a mawlavi or teacher of Islamic Law to the Afghans. Engr Es'haq turned out to be an extremely intelligent man, brilliant in his understanding and exposition of Soviet moves, the tribal system, the Pakistani situation, future possibilities, the role of women and many other subject
The Mujahideen, thinking that because I am from America and must be soft' wanted me to stay in a hotel. But I insisted that I do not stay in hotels when I can stay with Muslims. As a second best, they put their most posh building at my disposal, a place donated by some Arab supporters from where they publish a magazine about the Jehad
Near peshawar. I was able to visit a caravan of refugees from Wardak in Afghanistan which had come in only the day before These people were owners of small pieces of land in Wardak, self-subsisting farmers The Russians had bombed them, destroyed their homes, and killed their livestock. They made clear to me that they have no desire to be in Pakistan; they have come because they do not have any choice.
Late at night I visited and interviewed some tough Mujahideen commanders who had just come in from Afghanistan for a short stay Among them was Commander Abdul Aziz from the Shamali region, which stretches 10-70 kilometers north of Kabul. With the help of various other groups, his forces recently captured the Nehrin garrison from the forces of the puppet Kabul regime. People like AbduJ Aziz have changed the indisciplined, carefree people of Afghanistan into trained Mujahideen who can obey orders and can conduct protracted guerrilla warfare against a Superpower
The location of the place where the commanders were staying was secret. The administrative and command center of Prof. Rabbani which I visited next had very tight security. Prof. Rabbani himself was visiting Africa at that time, but I was able to