-AFGHANews Vol 5, No22, November 15,1989, page©
Who is in the Mujahideen
Commander Khan Mohammad
Commander	Khan
Mohammad was born 30 years ago in the village of Char Qulba in the district of Arghandab, Kandahar province.
His father, Haji Dad Mohammad an Alkozai Push toon, was a poor farmer. Commander Khan Mohammad now a deputy of Mullah Naqeeb, the famous Jami'at commander in Kandahar, studied Holy Quran7 and basics of Islam in the Mosque of his village.
He joined Mujahideen in 1979 and worked as an unarmed Mujahid for one
year. In 1981, he became a group commander and in 1986 was chosen the deputy of Commander Mullah Naqeeb.
He has participated in many operations against the Soviets, the biggest was the operation of 1980 in which about 350 Mujahideen and civilians were killed
His first base was in suburbs of Kandahar and now he has Mujahideen in Dand, Khakraiz and Maroof districts as well.
He is married and has .three children.
Commander Ubaidullah
Commander Obaidullah, 31, was born in the Panjwaee district of Kandahar province.
His father, Shahbaz Khan an Alkozai Pushtoon, was a farmer working on abother's land. Obaidullah completed school in the city of Kandahar and later joined the military college in Kabul. When he was student, the communists took power. He escaped from Kabul and joined the Mujahideen in 1978.
He formed his group of 50 in
1979. He established his base in the Panjwaee district of Kandahar from where he still operates. His operational targets axe the security belt around the district and the Supply road reaching the city of Kandahar.
Among the operations in which he has participated against the Soviets and the puppet regime, the 1979 operation was the largest; the enemy lost 200 men and the Mujahideen 50 fighters:
He is married and has five children.
Commander Mullah Faiz
Commander Mullah Faiz, 50, was born in the village of Sangsar of Maiwand district, Kandahar province.
His father Haji Akhund Zada Sahib, a Noorzoy Pushtoon, was a religious scholar teaching Islamic subjects in Maiwand district. Mullah Faiz studied the basics of, Islam in the mosque in Sangsar where his father was teaching.
When the communists took power
in 1978, Mullah Faiz was the Imam ( Prayer leader) in a mosque. He started his Jehad against the Soviets and the puppet regime from 1978 by preaching and participating in fighting. He foimed his own group in 1979 with about 20 people. He established his base in Maiwand district. Later he spread his influence to Panjwaee.
He is respected as a commander, as a mullah and as a spiritual man. He is married and has seven children.
Commander Abdul Wahab
Commander Abdul Wahab, 60, was born in Chinar village of Khakraiz district, Kandahar province.
His father, Mawlawi Dad an Alkozai Pushtoon, was a poor farmer working throughout his life in his own village and other areas in the district on others land. Abdul Wahab studied in the Khakraiz grand mosque the basics of Islam for a very short time and then joined his father to earn something for the survival of the family.
When the communists took power in 1978, Abdul Wahab was helping his
father. In late 1987 he contacted commander Mullah Naqeeb who provided him three weapons.
He established his base in Khakraiz and stayed. He is still based there. He started with ten people to operate against government security posts and built his strength gradually.
In the fall of 1982, Commander Abdul Wahab participated in an operation in which the enemy lost 100 men and the Mujahideen lost 35 persons He is married and has nine children.
$ $ $ $
Soviet* tleniaiUl end of (JoriHnahjst party's

By: Habibur Rahman
On November 7, Moscow, for the first time in 60 years, was a witness to two separate celebrations of the communist revolution.
The Red Square was the scene of the official celebration with the usual military parade, while seven kilometers away 10,000 Soviet citizens got together to celebrate unofficially. They called for an end to the communist party's monopoly on power.
72 years ago the communists, under the leadership of Lenin, took power in Moscow and founded die world's first communist regime.
The two separate ceremonies indicate a division among the Soviets over how the country should be run.
The monopoly of the communist party has in the past been responsible for oppressive rule in Moscow. Seven decades of dictatorship under the banner of Marxism - Leninism has cost the Soviets a great deal. Not only have the Soviets suffered under the communists' rule, but millions of people outside the Soviet Union have been affected by their policies, directly or indirectly. The tragedy of Afghanistan is a good exam pie: four Soviet leaders were involved, and still it continues.
Seven decades of dictatorial rule by the communist party could not turn the Soviet Union into a model state, in which men and women enjoyed freedom of speech, freedom to worship God, and economic liberty.
Ethnic issues in the -Soviet Union and unrest among workers and intellec tuals make clear the need for radical changes in Soviet political, economic and social systems.
The steps which Mikhail Gorbachev has already taken have not satisfied people. More change is needed.
The cracks in the Berlin Wall has shaken the Red Empire from its foundation. A writer has truly called the recent developments in the Soviet camp a step towards the end of communism era.
We would like to see Soviet Union become a more humane power which allows freedom for its people at home, and respects the rights of other nations to live according to their beliefs.