/


Vol 5, No 3
February 1,1989
Shevardnadze visits Kabul
THE Soviet Foreign Minister reached Kabul on a 3-day unannounced visit on January 13 to discuss the latest situation with regime leaders.
His trip took place one month before the date when the Soviet troops are supposed to withdraw from Afghanistan
Mr. Shevardnadze, promised continued support for the communist regime of Najib. He also asked for a continuation of talks between the Mujahideen and the Soviets.
Earlier the Mujahideen, describing the Soviet attitude in the talks as "negative", had announced an end to further talks unless the Soviets changed their stand.
It is believed the Soviet Union promised to supply food and fuel for the regime.
Resistance Advisory Council to meet on February 10
AS a first step towards formation of a broad-based interim administration the Mujahideen parties have agreed to form an advisory council.
The council will be composed of representatives of the Mujahideen parties, commanders, religious scholars, refugees and intellectuals. Each of the seven parties in the Alliance will introduce 60 people, half of whom will be field commanders or their representatives.
The Alliance has asked the coalition of eight parties based in Iran to introduce 60 people, but the coalition is asking for more seats. A reliable source
Soviet troops leave Afghanistan
WESTERN sources report that the Soviets have resumed their troop withdrawal.
The Soviets have committed them*-selves to withdraw their troops by February-15,1989. After completion of the first phase, the Soviet Union suspended troop withdrawal.
After returning from Islamabad talks, the Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, Yuri Vorontsov, said in Moscow that there was a danger the Soviets might not complete its troop withdrawal on time.
Soviet officials have reiterated their commitment to abide by the Geneva accords, but have refused to give any information about the details of troop withdrawal.
The Soviets say that their troops are deployed in the six provinces. Soviet troops are in Kabul, Par wan, Baghlan, Samangan and Balkh on the Salang highway, and in Herat in the
west of the country.
Before leaving, the Soviets have involved themselves in heavy bombing of the liberated areas - especially areas controlled by the Supervisory Council of the North. Preliminary reports of mass killings along the Salang highway have reached Peshawar. These attacks are carried out under the guise of opening the road for food convoys but the real aim seems to be securing it from the Mujahideen attack during the troop withdrawal.
The Mujahideen have said that they will not attack withdrawing Soviet troops.
Paper name changed
THE Kabul regime party newspaper Haqiqat-e-Lnqilab-e-Sour ('Troth of the April Revolution") was renamed Payam ("message") on 31 December.
The paper will remain under the control of the party and will be run by the same people. .
says that the possibility of a compromise on 80 seats could not be ruled out. A delegation of the Mujahideen Alliance has gone to Teheran to negotiate a deal with the leaders of the coalition.
( The Supreme Council of the Alliance has also decided to include some people living in Kabul in the advisory council, but so far the number of seats reserved for these people and who they will be has not been disclosed.
The primary task of the council is to give vote confidence to the interim government proposed by the Supreme Council of the Alliance.
So far, the Supreme Council, which is composed of the seven leaders of the constituent parties in the Alliance, has not agreed on the composition of the interim government which will be introduced to the council.
Since the Soviet troops are supposed to leave by February 15, the Mujahideen parties are under tremendous pressure to come up with a practical solution for the transitional government to avoid further complication of the situation.
The first meeting of the advisory council of the Mujahideen will be held on February 10. The place of the meeting is not decided yet but it is possible that the meeting will be held in Peshawar.
The delay in formation of the council has become a source of worry for Afghans and their supporters.
The Soviet Union has said that it sees a positive element in the Shoora but insists on inclusion of the communist regime in any arrangement. The Mujahideen refuse to deal with communists but have shown readiness to include "good Muslims" from Kabul to participate in the Shoora and interim administration.