AFGHANews Vol 7, No 23, December 1,1991, page ©
The Resupply Effort
The Soviets are not only providing aid and equipment, but delivering it as well. During 1989-91. Soviet transport aircraft, flying primarily from Tashkent but also from Dushanbe, Fergana, Chimkent and Mary, have sustained an airlift estimated in the West at 20 to 40 sorties a day (the Soviets in the spring of 1990 reported 10 D-76 Candid sorties a day) into Kabul and Bagram - at an estimated cost of about 490 million dollars a year to the Soviets. According to a US State Department source, there were over 8,000 resupply flights between February 1989 and July 1990.
Keeping (he costs high, the volunteer Soviet crews - Aeroflot and military - receive not only increased ruble salaries but also a bonus of $200-400 in US currency per flight. This has led to some considerable fortunes being amassed - one western journalist in Kabul in December, 1990 waited in a bank as a Soviet pilot withdrew $75,000 to take home. The aircrew are widely reported to enhance their income by smuggling, in both directions.
The airlift has been supplemented by convoys of Soviet-manned trucks, continuing to move supplies from Kushk, Termez and other Soviet supply points to Kabul, Mazar and elsewhere in Afghanistan. While these are "civilian" trucks, as with all Soviet motor transport assets, they are earmarked for the Army on mobilization, in many cases along with their reservist drivers, in the spring of 1990, Soviet sources reported plans to build new ammunition dumps at Hairatan to support the war in Afghanistan, h June, 1990, Engineer Mohammad Ayub, chairman of die military committee of (he resistance party Jami'at Islami, reported that 700-1,200 trucks a week were crossing the border as part of the resupply effort In die winter of 1990-91, large convoys left Hairatan for Kabul. Peter Jouvenal, a British cameraman, reported large parks of tanks, armored vehicles, and artillery being held for delivery there and at Mazar-i-Sharif. Soviet sources reported "dozens of trucks cross the border at Kushk and Termez every day”. This flow of economic aid — including foodstuffs — contrasted with empty shelves in Termez and elsewhere in the Soviet Union.
David C. Isby is die author of "WEAPONS AND TACTICS OF THE SOVIET ARMY", "RUSSIA’S WAR IN AFGHANISTAN" and "WAR IN DISTANT COUNTRY".
He has travelled frequently to Afghanistan and Pakistan to get first-hand information about the war in Afghanistan and has written many papers on its different aspects. He has also taken part in numerous television and radio shows to inform the public about the situation in Afghanistan. Isby, an expert on Soviet weapons, is a frequent contributor to Jane's Intelligence Review and other defense journals. He is a member of the board of directors of the Committee for a Free Afghanistan based in Washington D.C.
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Hamidullah Sad Bashi
Hamidullah Sad Bashi, 52, is Jami'at Islami ^commander in Khobn District, Samangan Province, who commands about
3,000	armed Mujahideen. He is a humble person with a good reputation.
Kabul-Hiaratan road, known as die lifeline of Kabul, passes through Kholm giving it a special military significance. The pipeline bringing fuel to Kabul provided a relative easy target for the Mujahideen.
The Mujahideen under Sad Bashi used to launch limited operations against the communist regime before the Soviet invasion; Their strength grew considerably after the invasion because more people joined them and they received advanced weapons from outside. They began to harass the Soviet troops along the road and in their bases. They also set on fire the pipeline taking fuel to the Soviet bases. These activities provoked reaction from the Soviet troops leading to several battles. Here are the accounts of some of these operations:
•In 1982 Soviets laid siege to the town of Kholm. Fierce fighting continued for 13 days. Dozens of Soviet and regime soldiers lost their lives in die attack. Soviets set on fire the covered market of Kholm which was 200 years old. They also destroyed tire historical Madrasa (center of learning) of Ismail Baig. The enemy managed to capture about 200 armed Mujahideen, including some group commandos, belonging to afl die Mujahideen pasties. One of die captured commanders formed a militia unit All those captured were allowed to serve in this unit They deserted and rejoined die Mujahideen as they found the opportunity.
•The Mujahideen attacked the enemy position in many parts of Kholm District on March 21, 1984, to disrupt the Afghan new year celebrations organized by the Kabul regime. Sad Bashi attacked the Soviet base in Bagh-i-Jehan Noma with heavy weapons killing at least 40 Soviet soldiers and officers and wounding many others.
Six days later, Soviet forces attacked the Mujahideen bases in the town and nearby mountains. The Mujahideen lost 36 men while 200 enemy troops were either killed or wounded. The enemy lost two helicopters in the operation. The operation lasted 11 days forcing the Mujahideen to evacuate their mountainous bases. The Soviets mined the bases after the Mujahideen had left
•	hi 1986, the Mujahideen of Sad Bashi destroyed and enemy post inside the town and captured one tank. Four Mujahideen were killed in this operation.
•	In 1990, the Kabul regime air force bombed Kholm for five days killing about 80 civilian population. The Mujahideen fought against the enemy air force from the top of their houses.
Sad Bashi has established a close link with the Supervisory Council. The Council has trained some of his Mujahideen in military tactics.
He lived a peaceful life before the communist coup of 1978 and earned his living through gardening and running a small business in the town. Sad Bashi began Jehad in 1979. The brutal suppression of Dara-i-Souf uprising by the communist regime had an immense effect on his decision to take arm and fight against the government
He was one of the 15 young people who attended a meeting in the house a local notable to discuss ways of resisting the communists onslaught on their religion and private lives. The group chose Sad Bashi as their leader. The group began to launch small-scale attacks on die enemy soldier and officers during the nights, hi 20 days, the group became 60 men strong. This group merged with another group of Jami'at under Mullah Nabi who operated in another pm of the town. Mullah Nabi was appointed as die commander and Sad Bashi worked as his deputy.
After Mullah Nabi's martyrdom, Nezamoddin became the leader of die group. When he was killed. Sad Bashi took die charge of die group which had now grown to 400 men strong.
Sad Basin received die first batch of weapons sent by Jami'at in late 1980. It included 7 semiautomatic Siminov guns, one RPG rocket launcher and some ammunition.
Due to the hard work of Sad Bashi Jami'at became the strongest Mujahideen party in Kholm. Hezb of Hikmatyar, Harakai and Jabha of Mujaddidi also have followers in die district The Mujahideen in Kholm have formed an all parties council to deal with die local issues.
Commander Sad Bashi has paid close attention of die education of children. He has opened 10 primary schools, one for girls, one Holy Quran memorization school and two Madras as (traditional religious schools).
He has also built a ten-bed hospital and some clinics with the help of relief organizations based in Peshawar to provide health services to the people.
Sad Bashi learned the basics of Islam in the mosque school of his village. Instead of attending school, he decided to help his father in his daily work of business and fuming.
He was bom in a Tajik family in Kinja Boy, a village in the center of Kholm. His father Mullah Sharaf worked in his farm in addition to being a part-time shopkeeper.
Sad Bashi is married and has five children.