                       ____m_il_____U3U3M______EASE.7
          MU1AHIDEEN HEED IRAN'S ACTIVE SUPPORT
 The Islamic Republic of Iran has given political support to the struggle of the Afghan people agonist the Soviet invaders The Mujahideen have the
 opportunity to have some cultural and political activities in Iran. 1.5 million Afghan refugees are living there All these deserve appreciation.
 These days there are talks about improvement of relations between the Soviet Union and Iran and arrangements for more trade. While every country has the right to have a relationship with any other country, it should be born in the minds of our brothers in Iran, that the Soviets are the killers of more than one million muslims in. Afghanistan.and that they, are degrading Quran and destroying mosques there.                                *
 Soft condemnation and polite disapproval of the invasion is insufficient. It is. the duty of our muslim brothers in Iran to help the jehad by every means: As President Khamanei told a Mujahideen delegation in Islamabad, the cause of Afghanistan is the cause of Islam.
 Complete moral and material support is necessary for the continuation of the resistance. If today we hesitate to take practical- steps tomorrow we would
 regret it,
 We Afghans not only ask for the continuation of strong political support but
 eipeet material support to continue our jehad.
 God forbid, if Afghanistan is pacified . the neighbouring countries will face serious security problems. There are compelling religious and geo-political reasons why our muslim brothers in Iran should extend their moral and material support to the Mujahideen.
 Iran having a good relationship with radical Arab stales can influence them stop opposing Mujahideen membership ,;n the Islamic Conference
 With proper political support the Islamic non-aligned and neutral Afghanistan will be freed and a big tragedy will come to an end.
 You are «true hero *>( the Swtei
to volunteer lor f.notiier tour of