AFGHANews Vol7, No 1, January 1,1991, page ©
News
From The Battlefields
Faryab Province
The Mujahideen captured four posts on December 12 in Afghan Kot, close to the city of Maimana, killing nine enemy soldiers and wounding seven. They seized 16 Kalashnikov rifles. One Mujahid was killed in the attack and four were injured.
On December 11, the Mujahideen attacked an enemy unit stationed in Mazar Chawny, near Maimana, killing five enemy soldiers, capturing two and wounding three. Five Mujahideen were injured and one was killed.
Herat Province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at launched the following operations against the enemy from 6 to 16 December.
•The Mujahideen killed 20 enemy soldiers, captured one soldier and seized 10 Kalashnikov rifles and one *-118 wireless set when they attacked post in Chesht sub-district. Four Mujahideen were killed and four sustained injuries.
•A militiaman defected to the Mujahideen, bringing with him 10 Kalashnikov rifles from regime security posts around the city.
•In two separate attacks on Herat-Torghundi Highway, one armored vehicle and two oil tankers were destroyed, nine soldiers were killed and one officer defected to the Mujahideen along with his family. The Mujahideen seized two Kalashnikov rifles and one pistol.
The Mujahideen captured 40 enemy soldiers and seized 35 guns and two rocket launchers and some ammunition on December 16 in Jalwardan area close to the city of Herat
In. a series of attacks launched against the enemy close to the city, more than 100 enemy soldiers and officers were killed, 16 soldiers were captured, two tanks and one truck were set on fire and more than 100 light weapons were seized. The fighting, which began on December 20, continued for two days. Mujahideen from several districts took part in the operation. Sixteen Mujahideen were killed and several others were injured.
The Mujahideen liberated eight villages located in Enjeel and Guzara Districts, and destroyed 15 posts on the security belt of the city of Herat on 23 December. One tank and one truck woe destroyed and the enemy suffered heavy casualties. Reports adds that snowfall in Herat has not slowed down the pace of fighting, which had gained momentum recently. Cmdr. Ismail
Khan leads the Mujahideen in the attacks.
The Kabul regime has repented heavy fighting between the Mujahideen and its troops around the city of Herat.
Farah Province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at and. NIFA (Pir Gailani) killed four enemy soldiers and seized six Kalashnikov rifles and one pistol when they attacked * an enemy security post west, of Shindand air base on December 10.
Badghis Province
The Mujahideen destroyed two tanks and four trucks of a supply convoy going from Herat to Qala-i-Naw, the provincial capital of Badghis, and killed six soldiers and wounded eight on December 6 in the Laman area.
The convoy was composed of 20 armored vehicles and 150 supply trucks.
Two days later, the Mujahideen attacked the returning convoy in the Houz-i-Khudaie area, close to Qala-i-Naw, killing two soldiers and capturing two others.
An enemy attack on Mujahideen positions in the Dah Kamary area was repulsed on December 8 after they destroyed one tank and two trucks and killed 11 enemy soldiers. The Mujahideen seized two Kalashnikov rifles.
One Jami'at junior commander and five Mujahideen were killed in the attack.
After fierce fighting last summer between the Mujahideen and the regime's forces in Qala-i-Naw, the area is relatively calm. Mujahideen activities have decreased due to cold weather. The regime is bringing supplies to die besieged garrison of Qala-i-Naw. Meanwhile the regime forces are trying to recapture some of the posts they lost to the Mujahideen in Qala-i-Naw last summer.	'	•
Jawzjan Province
The Mujahideen liberated 10 villages in Sar-i-Pul District and seized 120 Kalashnikovs, two P.K machine-guns, one tank and 80 boxes of ammunition on December 15, Qazi Yasin, Jami'at commander, reported.
Eight regime troops were killed and seven were injured. Seven Mujahideen sustained injuries.
Kunduz Province
In 10 days of fighting for control of the Kunduz-Sherkhan Bander road, the Mujahideen and regime forces have suffered heavy casualties.
Kabul regime troops attacked the Mujahideen position in Puza-i Qandahari and Ortabolaq on December 9.
General Nasruddin, Rahim Pahlawan, a famous militia commander, Brigadier Akbar and four of his lieutenants, and 45 soldiers of KHAD and militia units were killed and 25 soldiers were injured.
The enemy lost three tanks, one BM-41 vehicle-mounted rocket launcher and one anti-aircraft gun.
Forty-two civilians were killed anc 25 sustained injuries . The Mujahideen lost nine men and seven were injured.
Regime troops looted the villages they entered and inflicted heavy material losses on the people.
The report has been sent by Jami'at chief commander in Kunduz, Aril’ Khan.
Logar Province
Fighting between the Mujahideen and regime forces Has continuet around Mohammad Agha anc Zarghoon Shahr. The Kabul regime planes have spread anti-personnel mines in the area to prevent Mujahideen movement
From page (3)