AFGHANews Vol 5, No 5, March 1, 1989, page 2
r
News
From the battlefields *_______________________ . -■>
Takhar Province
Jami'at scored a major victory when more than 10,000 regime militiamen and spldiers defected to the Mujahideen in Takhar and Badakhshan bringing with them big quantities of arms and ammunition.
On February 16, regiment number 6, headed by Abdul Samad, regiment 543 headed by Mirza Abdur Rahim and regiment 544 headed by Abdur Rashid Tatar defected to the Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council of the North.
The following weapons and equipment was delivered to the Mujahideen:
1-	Tanks and armored cars 15
2-	Trucks	40
3-	Light weapons	10,000
4-	Tractors and Bulldozers 50
5-	Light grenade launchers 60
6-	Heavy grenade launchers 40
7-	Anti-aircraft guns (23 mm.)10
8-	Mortar( 82 mm.)	20
9-	Mortar(120 mm.j	8
10-	76mm Howitzer	7
11-	PK. Machine gun	100
12-	Goryunov machine guns 270
13-	RDPs (heavy Kalashnikov) 500
14-	DSchk guns(l2.7 mm) 50
15-	ZPUs guns (14.5 mm) 30
By this victory Rustaq distric, Takhar, and Shahr-i-Bozorg sub- dis-trict3adakhshan were liberated.
Salang valley
On February 15, four officers of the regime were killed and 12 soldiers were captured when the Mujahideen attacked their post in Liwan of Salang valley. The Mujahideen seized 14 guns.
On February 16, the Mujahideen destroyed five tanks, six armored cars, seven trucks, one 122 mm gun and ; eight oil tankers when they attacked an enemy convoy inside die Salang valley. Forty five soldiers and 15 officers were
captured. The Mujahideen seized 26 Kalashnikov rifles, two rocket launchers, one mortar, and two pistols. Two Mujahideen were killed and three were injured.
On the same day the Mujahideen attacked Aahangaran post with heavy weapons. Four tanks and six trucks were destroyed. The enemy suffered casualties but no figures were available.
In three days of fighting which started on February 14, the Mujahideen destroyed four trucks loaded with ammunition, killed or wounded 50 soldiers and destroyed two posts. Three Mujahideen were killed in the operation.
The Mujahideen siezed four Kalashnikov rifles, one PK machine gun and one grenade launcher.
On 17 February an enemy garrison in Hejan, south of the Salang Tunnel, was captured after three days of fighting.
Twenty enemy soldiers were killed, three were captured and the rest fled.
The Mujahideen captured 61 Kalashnikov rifles, one mortar, seven rocket launchers, three grenade launchers and two pistols. The Mujahideen also captured six armored cars and five tanks which were set on fire because the Mujahideen could not make use. of them. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
Parwan province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked enemy positions along the highway in Salang valley, Jabul Seraj, Matack and Charikar on February 11. Meanwhile the Mujahideen attacked with heavy weapons the enemy bases in Qala-i-Surkh in Jabul Seraj at the mouth of the Salang valley, Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan province, and Bagram air base.
In Salang 145 enemy soldiers and ten officers were captured and 10 were killed. The Mujahideen captured nine1
82mm mortars, 181 Kalashnikov rifles. One DSchK, one PK machine gun, one Dragunov sniper gun, one communication set and some ammunition. The Mujahideen lost one person and eight others were wounded. The Mujahideen control a section of the highway.
In Jabul Seraj, seven enemy posts were evacuated in Mian Guzar area. Near the Matak Bridge one tank was set on fire and three soldiers were killed. The Mujahideen lost two men and two Mujahideen were wounded.
In these operations, the Mujahideen belonging to Dagarwal Jailani from Jabul Seraj, Padar Khan and Mawlana from Gulbahar, Haji Enayat from Charikar, Engineer Wasil from Ashaba and Shaheen from Kapisa had participated.
On February 7 the Mujahideen from Bagram fired ground-to-ground rockets into Bagram air base. Several aircraft were damaged.
Soviet and regime forces launched a massive offensive against the Mujahideen along the Salang highway on January 23. As a resultof heavy bombing from air and rocket firing 600 people, most of them civilians, were killed and 1200 were injured.
In Panjshir a Scud missile killed 70 people in the village of Khench. Since the beginning of the offensive, Soviets and regime forces have fired 23 Scud missiles into the Panjshir Valley.
The Mujahideen from Jamial captured 21 soldiers and two officers of the regime when they attacked the enemy posts close to the city of Charikar on February 8.
The Mujahideen seized 19 Kalashnikov rifles, one mortar, one DSchK machine gun, two Grenov ma-chineguns and some ammunition.
The posts were located about one kilometer from the center of the city.
In the attack which was launched by Commander Haji Enayat one tank and two trucks belonging to the enemy were destroyed.
Nineteen Mujahideen sustainedmi-nor injuries.
The report which was written on February 15, said that bombing of the Mujahideen bases like Panjshir, Khailab and Khost-o-Fering was continuing.
On February 10, six civilians were killed by bombing in Khost district pf Baghlan province.
It should be added that bombing of the bases of the Supervisory Council oi ‘ the North started on January 18.
Turn to page ( 3 )