AFGHANews Vol 5, No 13, July 1,1989, page ©
Glimpses into the historic background of	Part	(7)
The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
Reunity between Hezb and Jami'at and formation of "Harakat Inqlab Islami":
During the meeting in which Maw law i Fayez was appointed as the president of die new unity and chairman of its Supreme Council, all the members submitted written allegiances to Mr. Fayez. He might still have the forms with him. In the meeting we also decided that die Supreme Council would be the highest decision-making authority which would decide about all the important issues including the name of the new organization and its emblem.
After a while, Mr. Fayez held the first meeting of the Supreme Council. The issues under discussion included die general members' contentment with the election of Mr. Fayez, the need for announcement of the decision, the need for transfer of authority to him, and the need for nullification of the authorities of the leaders of Hezb and Jami'at. What became clear from the meeting was the fact that Hezb Islami had made its acceptance of die new unity conditional chi two demands:
(1)	The new organization should be called "Hezb Islami".
(2)	The emblem of the new party should be the same as that of Hezb Islami.
These demands were rejected by other members because they were against the earlier decisions. The situation in the meeting became tense. Finally it was decided to postpone the matter for the nett session.
When we were waiting for the next session. Prof. Rabbani informed ns that Hezb Islami had said it was ready to give up its demands and accept tire unity provided that Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi replaced Mawlawi Fayez as die president of the new organization. We were surprised by Hezb's new condition but also happy that a solution was found for the problem.
On September 26, 1978, a lofty meeting was held in Madina Mosque, Peshawar, to announce the formation of the reunity between Jami’at and Hezb. The leaders including Prof. Rabbani, Mr. Hikmatyar, Qazi Amin, and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi were present in the meeting. All the leaders spoke on the occasion welcoming the unity and pledging support
Memoirs of Dr. Taw ana
In his speech, Qazi Amin said, "1 wish to serve as a sincere soldier in this new organization. I have never been willing to assume any high official position and will not be.” He asked the audience not to treat the leaders of Hezb and Jami'at as party leaders anymore. "You are the ones dial create leadership. Without your support no one could claim to be a leader”, he continued. The meeting concluded with a lot of hope for die establishment of an Islamic system in Afghanistan after the reunify of die Islamic Movement
The council of the new organization started its meetings under the chairmanship of Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi. In one of the sessions die issue of the name of the new party was brought up. Mawlawi Mohammadi suggested the name "Inqlab Islami”, and another member-most probably Prof. Rabbani—added the word "Harakat" to it So the new party was called ”Harakat Inqlab Islami Afghanistan” (Islamic Revolutionary Movement of Afghanistan). Now one objected to the proposed name, and we thought it was accepted unanimously. Thus, we began using the new name for the party. Few days later, however, Mb'. Hikmatyar and Qazi Amin raised their earlier pre-conditions for unity—i.e., adopting the name and emblem of Hezb. Prof. Rabbani expressed deep regret about such turnarounds. He said he could not tolerate violation of previous decisions any more. To ease the situation, I and Fayez—who considered ourselves members of the unity rather than belonging to our earlier parties— intervened. We suggested that Hikmatyar and Qazi Amin should accept the name "Harakat Inqlab Islami” and Prof. Rabbani should agree to adopt the emblem of Hezb for the new party .
Participation of Qazi Amin in the council meetings created some tension. He was not a member of the council. In public meetings he had expressed his unwillingness to assume any high position. Nonetheless, he used to come to council meetings. When we asked Mawlawi Nabi about the issue, he said he had invited him because he was a qualified person. From this answer, we got the impression that Mawlawi Nabi did not follow the decisions of the council. On the contrary, he acted according to his personal views. We resented such an attitude, but because of
the circumstances and also for our respect to Mawlawi Nabi we did not raise any voice in protest
After a few days, Mawlawi Mohammadi brought up the issue of appointing Qazi Amin as the head of the Military Committee. We rejected that proposal and got the impression that Mawlawi Nabi was biased towards Hezb. Finally Qazi Amin was appointed vice-president of the Military Committee. In fact, however, he acted as president because Mawlawi Nabi himself was its nominal president.
In the council meetings, we used to discuss the ways to confront the Kabul communist regime, how to topple it, and how to establish an independent Islamic system in its place. One point of the discussion was toe fact that the regime was armed and enjoyed the military support of the Soviet Union, whereas we were empty handed. We had a difference of opinion as what to do. Eng. Hikmatyar and Qazi Amin argued that fighting was useless, "all toe people of a province cannot confront even one tank.” They talked about bloodshed, destruction and other tragedies resulting from war and concluded that "we cannot bear toe consequences of fighting. Neither can we provide for the needs of our people inside Afghanistan nor for the needs of those who will go as refugees abroad." Most probably they preferred a coup in toe army. I preferred fighting. With toe limited knowledge I had about war, I believed we could confront toe enemy and its tanks through a guerrilla warfare. I proposed to consult some mili-. tary officers on that point. Mr. Hikmatyar's view was that toe Afghan military officers did not know about a guerilla war any more than he did.
After some discussions, we agreed to recruit a military officer for the council to utilize his expertise and experience. He would not be a voting member, however. Col. Mohammad Zairian was selected for that task. I asked him some technical questions especially about the possibility of confrontating tanks. He gave a detailed lecture about guerrilla warfare and illustrated the primitive ways of confrontation with tanks. His explanations were very encouraging for undertaking Jihad activities.
Turn to page (5)