Vol7, No 3	February	1,1991
mUJAHIDEEn
OPEN EMBASSY
in SUDAN
The Jami'at leader has returned from an official visit to Sudan during - which he opened the AIG Embassy in Khartoum.
During his ten day visit to Sudan he was received by President Umar Hasan al-Bashir. He congratulated him for implementation of Sharia in Sudan. He also held talks with the Foreign Minister and other government officials of that country.
Cooperation in educational and diplomatic fields between the Sudanese government and the AIG and current problems of Muslim world were fully discussed by the two sides. The government of Sudan has promised to give scholarships to some Afghan students in technical fields and higher education.
Prof. Rabbani addressed a meeting of scholars and diplomats participating in seminar on 'people's diplomacy'. Scholars and diplomats from some Islamic countries also had taken part in the seminar.
Jami'at leader talked to the students of Khartoum and Umdorman Universities and visited two people's defense training centers. The students were very keen to know about the struggle of Afghan Mujahideen.
Prof. Rabbani's visit was fully covered by Sudanese radio, TV and press. Despite the Gulf conflict, Afghanistan was at the top of the news in media during his visit.
As a sign of good-will, the Sudan President agreed to opening of the Mujahideen Embassy in Khartoum. The Embassy Was officially opened on January 23. The Sudan Foreign minister, Ali Ahmad Sahlool, was present on the occasion. This is the first embassy of the Mujahideen.
The Sudan-Afghan Friendship Association was formed to promote friendship between the two people.
Afghan Jehad suffers from conflict in Gulf
Habibur Rahman fa
The outbreak of hostilities in Gulf has had a negative effect on the provision of humanitarian assistance to the Afghan refugees and media coverage of the Afghan conflict.
Most of the Western relief organizations working for refugees in Pakistan have been temporarily closed, due to the evacuation of their foreign staff for security reasons. Although Arab relief organizations are still operating, their operations are at their lowest ebb ever due to anxiety about the Gulf war.
One can find hardly any news in the papers or on the radio about the Afghan issue. The Gulf war dominates the media.
The Mujahideen have remained calm about the war. Except for leaders of some minor Mujahideen groups, the Mujahideen leadership have not been very vocal against multinational forces' onslaught on Iraq.
The Mujahideen position on the issue has been consistent They have opposed forcible occupation and then annexation of Kuwait by Saddam Husain. Despite being sympathetic to the Palestine cause, the Mujahideen do not see any link between the occupation of a small Islamic country by Iraq and the occupation of Palestine by Israel. The Mujahideen have been in favor of an Islamic solution of the conflict. The Islamic foreign ministers' conference was in session when Iraq occupied Kuwait and the Mujahideen representative in the conference was the first envoy to condemn the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and asked the OIC to take necessary steps for the liberation of Kuwait The Mujahideen, like other Muslims, are fiercely opposed the involvement of Israel in the conflict and have warned against any attempt by Israel to exploit the situation arising from the Gulf war. Of course Afghans are worried about the plight of millions ordinary Iraqis who suffer from the
war.
The Mujahideen had other reasons to resent occupation of Kuwait by Iraq. Saddam Hussain has been a close ally of the Kabul regime and did not oppose the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. Recently Iraq admitted funding the national reconciliation program of the Kabul regime and helping Najib to improve his dented Islamic image.
While the Kuwait government did not have a clear pro-Mujahideen policy, the people of that country sympathized with Mujahideen and helped the resistance. The Saudi government, which has been a principle supporter of the Mujahideen, become a potential Iraqi target after the occupation of Kuwait
The longer the Gulf war lasts, the more its negative effects will be felt by Afghans. The Gulf war has given new life to anti- Western feelings in Pakistan, host to more than three million Afghan refugees. This might result in reduction of humanitarian assistance from Western countries.
Confrontation between the government and the opposition parties on the Gulf crisis could have a destabilizing affect on Pakistan. The refugees wil be the first people affected by undesirable developments of this political nature. In the North-West Frontier Province of Pakistan , the Awami National Party is in the forefront of the pro-Saddam campaign. This party has close ties with the Kabul regime. The majority of the Afghan refugees live in this province.
The Kabul regime has condemned the allied attack on Iraq. Pro-Saddam demonstrations were held in Kabul. The Kabul regime has had good relations with Saddam and has been receiving funds form Baghdad. It also sees Kuwait as a supporter of the Mujahideen. Najib joined hands with' India to seek a political solution to the problem through the organization of non-aligned countries, an obvious at-Tum to pane (7J