AFGHANews Vol 8, No 5, March 1,1992, page @

Battlefields
Badghis Province
•The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked security posts outside Qala-i-Naw, the provincial capital, on February 17. As a result seven posts were destroyed, 27 soldiers were killed and 52 troops, including seven officers, were captured. The Mujahideen seized the following kit
•	Mortars: 3 •ZPU-1.3
■	DShK: 1
•	Kalashnikov rifles: 136
•	T.T pistols: 9
■	Boxes of hand-grenades: 25 Boxes of Anti personnel mines: 15 Bags of rice: 150
Tins of ghee: 250 Beds: 180 Three Mujahideen were killed and five wounded.
■ Ten regime militiamen surrendered to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Kushk-i-Kohna sub-district on February 9 when the Mujahideen launched an attack against them. The enemy suffered heavy casualties. Two Mujahideen were killed and 15 were injured.
Herat Province
•The Mujahideen of the Afzali Front destroyed one tank and one jeep, seized two trucks, 15 Kalashnikov rifles, one Goryunov machinegun and captured 25 enemy soldiers when they attacked an enemy convoy on Herat-Torghondi road on February 18.
•The Mujahideen of Jami'at captured 58 soldiers when they attacked enemy positions east of Enjeel District on February 14.
Samangan Province
•The Mujahideen of Harakat Inqilab (Mohammadi) captured 10 regime security posts in Kholm District on February 22, Hindukush News Agency reported.
Fighting continued as this report was filed. No information is available about casualties on either side.
Parwan Province
Four tanks were destroyed and ten enemy troops, including a milita commander, were killed in Jangalbagh of Jabulseraj District on February 22. The fighting began when regime troops launched a counter attack on Mujahideen who had blocked the Salang Highway. The enemy troops were forced to retreat. In retaliation, Kabul planes bombed Mujahideen positions. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties in the attack. The road has been blocked by Mujahideen of Jami'ai's Supervisory Council.
Kunduz Province
The Mujahideen of Jami’at seized 11 Kalashnikov rifles, one ZPU-1 machinegun, one RPG rocket launcher, one 76mm mortar, one Radio set and some ammunition when they attacked an enemy post on the Kunduz-Mazar road on February 25, Commander Arif Khan reported. The post was destroyed. The report was silent about casualties on both sides.
Baghlan Province
•In armed clashes between militiamen of Kayan and WAD forces in Baghlan city on February 25, 15 soldiers from both sides were injured and several were killed. Commander Mullah Shams reported.
• Regime militiamen deprived re^ gime officials of their monthly salary when they looted a van inside the city of Baghlan, Commander Haqjo reported. The looted cash was payroll for Baghlan government officials.
Balkh Province
•Four enemy planes woe destroyed and a considerable number of
regime troops woe killed or wounded when the Mujahideen of Jami'at fired ground-to-ground rockets into regime's air base in Mazar on February 22, Commander Alam Khan reported.
In retaliation, the regime bombed Shadian and Zarang villages, killing and wounding scores of civilians. Many houses were also destroyed.
Faryab Province
And-Najib militiamen, headed by Rasul, took control of the center of Shereen Tagab District from pro-Najib troops on February 22, Mawlawi Yousuf reported. In dashes between the two sides, scores of men from both sides were killed or wounded.
Paktia Province
Around 47 armed soldiers have defected to the Mujahideen in Zurmat District, west of the city of Gardez, in the past two weeks, commander Saifurrahman of Harakat-i-Inqilab (Mansoor group) reported.
Commander killed
Azimullah, 23, a senior field commander of Ittehad-i-Islami of Prof. Sayyaf in Kama District of Nangarhar Province, was killed on February 22 outside his military center by an unidentified assassin, Ittehad Islami reported. The killer was immediately gunned down by the commander’s bodyguards.
Azimullah had played an important role in the liberation of Kama in 1989.
KGB still controls Tajikistan border
The collapse of Soviet Union has escaped notice on the border between Tajikistan and Afghanistan.
The Mujahideen have reported from Badakhshan that the border is still guarded by troops of the former Soviet Union, and even the Soviet flag still flies above the border posts.
When Soviet guards were asked by Mujahideen border officers in Ishkashim , Badakhshan Province, why the flag of the former Soviet Union was not replaced by the flag of Tajikistan, they replied that they hac not received any orders from their superiors.
There is no movement of people across the border. People on both sides of the border are from the same stock. They speak the same language and even have blood relations. The communist system prohibited contact between the two people. Any contact could be punished by three years of rigorous imprisonment