AFGHANews Vol 8, No 14, July 15,1992, page @
war damage
An Afghan delegation participating in the Earth Summit, organized by the UN, asked the international community to help Afghans to deal with the environmental issues created by the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
The Earth Summit opened in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, at the beginning of June, and was attended by heads of states and governments of member nations.
Highlighting the environmental problems in Afghanistan, the head of Afghan delegation, Jaffil Shams, said that deforestation, the increased population in the cities, destruction of irriga-
tion systems, and land mines were the major issues facing Afghanistan.
He said forests were heavily cut down during the war or were set on fire during military operations; this has damaged (he soil and water sources. He stressed the need for alternative sources of fuel to slow down the pace of deforestation. The domestic use of natural gas can reduce the need for cutting trees.
He also asked member states to help Afghanistan to clear more than 10 million mines planted by Soviet occupation forces. Mines pose a great danger to people and animals and hinder efforts for reconstruction and the rehabilitation of refugees.
A delegation of the Islamic government of Afghanistan, headed by Mohammad Siddique Saljoqi, the minister of state for foreign affairs, took part in the conference of foreign ministers of Islamic countries in Istanbul, Turkey, to discuss the situation in the newly independent country of Bosnia.
The two-day conference began on June 16. This was the first time that a delegation of the Islamic State of Afghanistan took part in such a meeting. The Interim Islamic Government, based in Peshawar, was a member of OIC. OlG expelled the Kabul regime from its membership after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979. Although the Afghan seat remained vacant dll 1989, the Mujahideen were allowed to attend those sessions which discussed the situation in Afghanistan.
The conference expressed support for Muslims in Bosnia, who are facing a war launched by the Serbian-dominated Yugoslavia army and Serbian militia.
Sarajevo, the capital of Bosnia, has been cut off from the outside world by Serbs for the past three months, and more than 300,000 of its people are facing shortages of essential commodities.
So far, an estimated 12,000 people have been killed in different parts of Yugoslavia^ and the Serbs still refuse to recognize the breakaway republics.
OIC has recommended that if UN
sanctions fail to end the war,. the Security Council should authorize the use of force against the Serbian forces.
The occasion was an opportunity for the Afghan delegation to inform the conference about situation in Afghanistan and asked the' member states to provide essential commodities to Afghans and help the Islamic government in its reconstruction efforts.
Saljoqi met with the prime minster of Turkey and foreign ministers of Iran, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and representatives from other Islamic countries.
The delegation of the Islamic State of Afghanistan was warmly received by the conference.
Bakhter attends Tehran moot
The conference of non-aligned countries' news, agencies, held in Teheran some time ago, has recommanded that member states help Afghanistan to restructure the Bakhtar News Agency. This was the first time that a representative of the Afghan government had taken part in this conference.
The conferees discussed ways and means of cooperation between member states in the exchange of information. There is a strong feeling among developing countries that Western news agencies do not give proper coverage to the positive developments there.
Bakhter is a state-conrolled news agency under the Ministry of Information of the Islamic government.
BBC appoints new reporter in Kabul
Suzy Price is the new BBC correspondent in Kabul. She succeeds Chris Bowers, who will be based in Tashkent to cover Central Asia.
Price joined the BBC World Service newsroom as a sub-editor in November 1990. For the past six months, she has been working in' World Service Television News as an assistant producer.
Before joining the BBC, Suzy worked as a reporter and Arts Editor with the Hull Daily Mail, for The Times of London and as a Press Association parliamentary reporter at Westminster.
Price was bom in London. She has a BA in English and related literature from York University, and a journalism diploma from City University.
Three UN de-miners die after Kabul blast
Three UN . deminers, one Afghan and two Britons, were fa-: tally injured in an explosion during demining operations near Karezemir a few kilometers north of Kabul on July 8.
They were detonating mines with a tank equipped with a heavy roller. Sources in the Halo Trust, -the UN-funded NGO carrying out the project, said that one mine which the tank detonated appeared to have been connected to another mine or a bomb buried nearby. The second explosive device blew up under the fuel tank, blasting flaming diesel through the vehicle and burning all three deminers badly.
The tank driver, an Afghan, died of his injuries at the ICRC hospital later the same day. The two Britons were evacuated by air the following morning to the U.K., where they died of their injuries a few days later.
The tragedy occurred during the UN's first Kabul-area demining project. Experts have estimated that the operation will last ten years throughout Afghanistan.