BFGHfW HEUS UOt.lM, HO.9, 1/5/ 1967 PAGE 8
Exchange of prisoners
In some areas Mujahideen have succeeded in exchanging prisoners with the puppets and even the Soviets. Sometimes the differences of opinion between Soviet and puppets have brought disaster to the prisoners. In 1984, an agreement was about to be reached to exchange more than 200 prisoners in Panjshir. The Soviets did not like the idea and launched a major offensive. All the prisoners were killed by bombing or in the crossfire between the two sides.
Mujahideen Prisons
Despite all the risks Mujahideen are running prisons. Having a prison means more responsibility. The enemy usually attack the prisons to release the prisoners and mak£ use of their information for military purposes When an offensive is launched keeping a large number of prisoners is a problem. Despite all that the Mujahideen keep prisons to make sure that justice is not sacrificed for security concerns.
All the above show that the Mujahideen; are concerned about the life of human beings; try to be just and even do not apply the principles of reciprocity in treatment of the enemy prisoners. This lakes root from the human nature of the resistance which is effected by the Islamic spirit oT forgiveness, proper treatment of all human beings and fighting the war on a moral basis
                                          A LETTER TO THE EDITOR
                                                   Capetown
                                                   22/3/1987.
.... How ashamed we are that all we can contribute are words and we can but console ourselves with the thought that you do, at least, know and understand our position and are praying for us in our own struggle against a Kufr and satanic regime and so in the spirit are fusing with us as ever we are fusing with you ....
                                                   Ismail Joubert Director Propagation Al-Jihaad South Africa,
                                       FROM THE DIARY OF JEHAD
                                       A RUSSET JUMPED INTO THE FIRE
It was the summer of 1984. The 7th offensive was continuing. In a side valley, 5 Kms. away from a Soviet garrison the Mujahideen had their base. They were attacking die enemy with heavy weapons, sitting in ambush against their patrol, planting mines on the roads they were using and attacking the isolated posts; the type of things which guerrillas usually do.
The Soviets launched an attack against the Mujahideen in this narrow side vaUey. Their jets and helicopters bombed the area and their ground forces advanced towards the positions of the Mujahideen. One enemy helicopter was hit by DSchK fire and was shot down. It look fire The helicopter was an MI-24 type and flown by a Soviet pilot.The pilot managed to gel out of the crashed helicopter without being harmed. He saw the Mujahideen who were trying to capture him. The pilot waited a few moment and then returned to the burning plane and entered into the flames.
Why did he make such a hard decision? The reason is simple The Soviets have fabricated a lot of stories about the Mujahideen's mistreatment of their prisoners and the Soviet soldiers have accepted the propaganda. Soviet personnel in Afghanistan live in military camps with very little contacts with the local population. They are not