AFGHANews Vol 7, No 15, August 1,1991, page Q
Red Cross limits its Afghan role
The International Committee of Red Cross (ICRC) has announced reduction of its activities in Afghanistan due to increased security risks to its workers.
ICRC terminated its activities in Kandahar when three of its members were arrested by a local Hezb Islami commander, Haji Asadullah, in January. They were released after several weeks in custody.
It closed its center in Mazar when it was looted by regime militiamen.
The activities of ICRC came to an end in Khost when two 6f its workers were killed apparently in a tribal dispute.
Jamillur Rahman party which rules most of the Kunar Province has asked ICRC to paint the signs on its cars in white, instead of red* or its vehicles will not be allowed to enter that province. Afghans hate red signs and banners because they were used by the communist regime.
ICRC will also close its center in Herat After the closure of these centers, ICRC will remains active only in Ningarhar and Continue to run its hospital in Kabul.	L
ICRC has recently repatriated 21 POWs of the Kabul regime which were under treatment in its Peshawar hospital. Repatriation of a batch of prisoners by ICRC had caused a row between this organization and Commander Haqqani who accused ICRC of repatriating some ranking officers of the Kabul against the agreement signed between the two sides when they were delivered to ICRC for treatment ICRC argues that the repatriated prisoners were abandoned by the Mujahideen and their repatriation had taken place with the consent of the Pakistan government
ICRC was given permission to open an office in Takhar but the orga-niztion did take any step in providing medical services.to people because the Supervisory Council did not agree that the supplies to come through Kabul.
ICRC has claimed that some Mujahideen are also being treated in its hospital in Kabul and are returned safely to the liberated areas after completion of their medical treatment This might be true about some individuals but no major Mujahideen fronts is involved.
Eshkashim, Zebak liberated
From page (1)
ment in the area.
• Liberation of Zebak and Eshkashim is a blow to Kayan militias. The inhabitants of these two towns, being followers of Ismailia sect, had established close contacts with Sayyed Mansoor of Kayan, the head of Ismail ias in Afghanistan and a militia leader affiliated to the Kabul regime. Mansoor wanted to establish himself in Badakhshan with the financial assistance from USSR and UN and then stab the Mujahideen from back. Ismailias live in Zebak, Eshkashim, Sheghnan and Munjan.
The Mujahideen of Jami'at have treated the local Ismailias properly. Despite their repeated mistakes of taking side with the communists, their lives and properties have been spared whenever their area came under control of the Mujahideen. After the liberation of Kuran-o-Munjan in 1987, Commander Masood forgave the Ismailia militias of Munjan Valley and even allowed them to keep their arms. They will be treated similarly in Zebak and Eshkashim by Sayyed Najmuddin.
• Victory at Zebak and Eshkashim will put SC in a better position in the Council of Commanders because it has achieved most of the targets it was assigned.
While Eshkashim is being liberated for the first time, Zebak had been liberated by the Mujahideen twice in the past. It was liberated, for the first time, in 1979, some months before the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The Mujahideen's advance towards Eshkashim was checked by the Soviet intervention (before their invasion of December 1979). On December 27, 1979, a column of Soviet armored units crossed the border into Eshkashim and moved towards Faizabad capturing Zebak on its way.
The Mujahideen under the command of Sayyed Najmuddin liberated
Zebak for the second time in summer of 1989. The Kabul regime launched a counter offensive to recapture Zebak using the Soviet territory. Soviet artillery and air force also provided cover fire for the regime troops. While Najmuddin was engaged in a pitched battle against the regime troops, a commander of Hezb (Hikmatyar group), launched attack against Baharak, the base of Sayyed Najmuddin. He faced a dilemma ~ to fight for control of Zebak against the communists or turn back to defend his base against a rival Mujahideen party! He choose the latter. This give the regime an opportunity to recapture Zebak. Whether the two attacks against Sayyed Najmuddin were coordinated or the local Hezb commander tried to exploit the opportunity created by the fighting in Zebak is a question which cannot be easily answered. The reason could be any thing, the result was the same — loss of Zebak and victory of communists.
Some weeks ago an incident took place which drew world attention to this remote area. A regime jet bombed a Soviet village killing some people and inflicting heavy material losses. Regime's air force was assigned to bomb a village near Zebak which was suspected of being a stronghold of the Mujahideen. Similarity of terrain in two sides of the Amu River which forms the border between Afghanistan and Soviet Union confused the communist pilot He dropped his bombs on a Soviet village. The incident shocked Najib. He apologized to Gorbachev Tajikistan leaders, Soviet people and families of the victims and offered compensation. He promised to punish the pilot If the bombs had fallen on a Badakhshan village and had killer some Afghan villagers, regime woulc have called it an act of bravery am would have rewarded the pilot but mis take in reading maps made the pilot legible for a court marshal with a possible death penalty.
Aid bodies attacked in Zabul
organizations is not limited to the liber-
From page (4)
sis tan ce to people inside Afghanistan. These incidents also give a bad image to the resistance which easily could be exploited by the Kabul regime.
Some UN officials working in Kabul have asked for total stoppage of UN relief operations in liberated areas and using all available funds through Kabul.
Violence against relief operations funded by UN and other International
ated areas. Some months ago UN trout farm in Qargha, about 10 kilometers away from the center of the city of Kabul, was looted by soldiers stationed in the nearby garrison.
UN office in Zindajan and UNICEF vaccination centers were destroyed by the regime forces during their offensive launched on May 4. The ICRC center in Mazar-i-Sharif was plundered by the Kabul regime militiamen.