IN THE NAME OF ALMIGHTY ALLAH
AFGHANnEWS
            A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT 1SLAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                  VOL. IV, N0.6,15/3/1988.
                       Geneva treaty fails to bring peace
The latest round of Indirect talks in Geneva between the Pakistani government and the puppet regime started on March 2 and is still continuing. It is lasting longer than other rounds of the Geneva talks. The Pakistan government has so far resisted the pressures to sign the accord without an agreement on the question of an interim government. It is not certain, however, how long it can do so successfully. The chances are that vill-nilly it will be forced to sign the agreements reached so far.
Calling the Geneva talks ‘peace talks1 would be a misnomer. Anyone thinking that the agreement between the Pakistan government and the puppet regime will bring peace and security in Afghanistan has to be ignorant of the realities of the situation inside the country.
The Afghan people did not start their struggle after the Russian invasion. They had started it, rather, against the Russian puppet regimes of Taraki and Amin. The reason why the Russians decided to send the Red Army to Afghanistan was that the puppets had failed to subdue the Afghan people's armed resistance against their atheist regimes.
The Russians want to take Afghanistan back to the period before December, 1973- They hope that the new masks put on by the puppet party, renouncing Communism and socialism, dropping the word “Democratic* from the name of the government, calling Afghanistan an Islamic country, the head-puppet giving a religious sermon, etc., will fool the people. They also hope that the Afghan people have tired of fighting after such a long time. Thus they hope the people will start cooperating with the puppet regime once they see the Russian troops have withdrawn
If the above is what Russians really think, it means that they have not learned any lessons from their ten year tragic experience in Afghanistan. Ho matter what kind of mask the Russian puppets in Kabul put on, there will be the clear mark of "MADE IN RUSSIA" on it. As for war-weariness, there is no sign of it among the Afghan Mujahideen whatsoever. The Afghan Muslim people are nourished from a spiritual source which is inexhaustible. The resistance of Muslim caucuses against the young and energetic Russian imperialism lasted for about 100 years. The Muslim Moro people have been continuing their struggle against Spanish, American and Philip?ne colonialism for about . four centuries. The Palestinian Muslims have resumed their struggle against the Zionist occupying force after 40 years.
How foolish it would be to think that the heroic Afghan Muslims are tired of fighting the enemies of Islam in ten yearsf