AFGHANews Vol 8, Nos 21 & 22, November 15,1992, page 0
Hal-o-Aqd Coucil to be held soon:	President	Rabbani
[An interview with President Rabbani which was published in Mujahid' of November 9,1992.]
Q: When will the council of Hal-o-Aqd be convened?
A: It depends on the cooperation of all the parties involved. I hope the council will be convened as soon as possible, and perhaps it will be convened within 45 days.
Q: Contrary to the previous elections, the members of the council will be elected on the basis of population rather than administrative division of the country. Why was this method , adopted?
A: Election based on the proportion of the population is a fair way which will satisfy all sections of the society. The administrative divisions of the past were valid and useful at the time when they were created. The situation has changed, and requires a new aroroach. The institutions which do not Sttve a useful purpose should give way to new institutions, so that people will be able to exercise their right of choosing their leaders. Elections based on proportions of population will eradicate doubts concerning discrimination against one group or the other.
Q: Some people say that the word Hal-o-Aqd is difficult to pronounce and has not been used in Afghanistan in the past while Loya Jirga is easy to pronounce and has a history in Afghanistan. Why did the Leadership Council prefer Hal-o-Aqd over Loya Jirga?
A: There is a big difference between Hal-o-Aqd and Loya Jirga. In Hal-o-Aqd the members have to meet certain ideological and moral require-
ments and have the power to make important decisions. The Loya Jirga consented to the decisions made by the rulers, and its members are chosen from among influential people. The Hal-o-Aqd council will be able to lead the country out of the current crisis.
The word Hal-o-Aqd is a political term coming from Islamic jurisprudence. Since it was not used in Afghanistan, it might be difficult to pronounce for some people. It is an appropriate term for the intended gathering.
Q: Can people other than the leaders of the Mujahideen bid for the leadership of the country?
A: There is no monopoly for the leadership of the country and there should not be any.
Q: Can women be elected as members of Hal-o-Aqd?
A: The rules are general and there is no item prohibiting women from being elected.
Q: Some people speculated that since Jami'at played a key role in overthrow of the communist regime and defense of Kabul, it is not ready to give up power. What is your answer?
A: Jami'at has always favored ruling the country through legal ways and in accordance to the desires of the people. We will not make any decision against the wishes of the majority of the people.
In exceptional situations when a political vacuum is created, we will make proper decisions. Normally, Jami'at is in favor of changes through the people's participation.
> Mirwais, a ^m&ander of ittihai • Islami of Prof. Sayyaf, was killed in ?Bag*am on' October 10. Heiihatya^'i Hezb Mami is:be^, heved responsible for this terrorist action.
600 men from Division 53 withdrawn from Kabul
Under the directive of the Defense Ministry of the Islamic State of Afghanistan, 600 soldiers belonging to Division 53 have left Kabul. The withdrawal was supervised by the members of the Peace Commission.
The first batch of 300 men left Kabul by two transport planes on October 20, and the second flew to. Mazar-i-Sharif nine days later.
The withdrawal of these forces was part of the ceasefire agreement signed by the government and Hezb Islami. According to the agreement, the
controversial forces were to be withdrawn one week after signing qf the agreement But due to technical problems, their withdrawal was delayed. This delay provided a propaganda tool far Hezb Islami to accuse the government of violating the ceasefire agreement ' ;
What was not reflected by the media was^the violation of the agreement by Hezb Islami. According to the ceasefire agreement, the withdrawal of units of Division 53 from Kabul should have taken place simultaneously with the withdrawal of Hezb fences from around Kabul.
m
which was
50,.h^ ;hee'ii ::*sk
jpjlj
•• £ 'U
n Afghan Sikhs and 1 their tents hear a
the 3
M,
•,3.	..	S-	I
iiilSii
meatof Police.
.. .The.. ..communist regime ^
e is more famS
IIIIIIP