Vol 8, No 4	February	15,1992
United Nations to host intra-Afghan dialogue
The UN efforts to find a political solution to the Afghan conflict entered a new phase when the UN Secretary-General Boutros Ghali issued a statement on January 27 showing readiness to host a meeting of Afghans that is supposed to propose a mechanism for the transitional administration and transfer of power.
Welcoming the implementation of negative symmetry by Moscow and Washington, the UN chief asked other countries to stop sending arms and money for the purpose of buying arms to both sides of the conflict. He said he had been requested by numerous groups in both sides of the conflict to organize holding intra-Afghan dialogue outside the region and he was prepared to do so.
Soon after Ghali's statement, Benon Sevan came to Pakistan (o hold consultations with different Mujahideen groups and the government of Paikistan. On the way to Islamabad, he met with the former king in Rome^nd with Pir Gailani, the leader of NIFA, in London. In Pakistan, he met all the Mujahideen leaders, except Prof. Sayyaf who refused to talk to him.
In his discussions with the Mujahideen leaders he revealed his plan for holding the proposed meeting. According to the plan, a list of 150 men will be formed from among the names proposed by different groups, including the Kabul regime. The list will include the names of non-controversial people acceptable by aU sides. In order to make his job easier, Sevan has asked the leaders of different groups to introduce 2nd and third-rank personalities of parties so that controversial figures are left out Once all sides have agreed on a list of 150 men, they meet for two or three days in Geneva, Vienna or Ankara to discuss the issue and choose from among themselves, or outside, 35 people as a working team. This team will have the job of proposing a mechanism for transfer
of power to an interim government and its composition. This group will also pave the way for holding a grand meeting of Afghans representing all sides to approve the plan. The UN will supervise this process until elections are held for the formation of a permanent government Members of the working team cannot become a member of the transitional government.
This proposal provoked different reactions from within the Mujahideen: Prof. Sayyaf rejected it as conspiracy against Islam. Hikmatyar called it impractical and time-wasting. Khalis said the UN should declare the Kabul regime illegal before any plan is discussed. The three leaders, Mujaddidi, Mohammadi and Gailani, expressed their support to the UN plan in a joint statement They noted, however, that they were against participation of" the regime in the talks. Hezb Wahdat and Harakat of Mohsini and Jami’at have raised some questions about process of selection of 150 men and the mandate of the proposed body. All Mujahideen have said they will not talk to the Kabul regime.
Sevan paid a visit to Kabul and Teheran to consult with the Kabul regime and Iranian leaders. Iran supports the UN plan. Pakistan has expressed strong support for the UN plan and has stopped passage of arms to the Mujahideen through its territory. This policy of Pakistan was well-received by the UN, members of CIS and the Kabul regime.
The UN envoy is reluctant to give any clue of what he has in mind about the proportion of representatives of each side in the 150 assembly. BBC quoting a diplomatic source in Kabul reported that 40 percent will be given to the Mujahideen, 40 percent to Kabul ' and 20 percent to Zahir Shah.
Peter Tomsen, the US special envoy to Afghanistan, alsp visited Pakistan at the beginning of February to meet with the Mujahideen leaders. The American policy is to support the UN plan
Commanders discuss war strategy
The meeting of the Council of Commanders, held in Jawar of Paktia Province, concluded on February 1. The meeting discussed the military and political situation of the country:
Jalaluddin Haqqani, Abdul Haq, Sayyed Jagran, Mohammad Amin Wardak, Mohammad Anwar, commanders of Hezb-i-Wahdat and Harakat-i-Islami (Mohsini) participated in the four-day deliberations.
Due to the cold climate and logistical problems, the com manders belonging to the Supervisory Council and southwest region could not attend-the meeting. These commanders wanted the meeting to be postponed so that all commanders could participate in it
Around 550 commanders partici paled in the Jawar meeting ( 85 from Wahdat Party and 35 from Harakat-i-Islami of Mohsini). The meeting passed a resolution the important points of which are:
•	The meeting rejected ceasefire with the Kabul regime and insisted on the continuation of Jehad until the collapse of the communist regime^
•	It proposed formation a of transitional government by commanders, Ulama, intellectuals and tribal elders.
•	It asked the Mujahideen political leaders to forge unity among them selves so that the achievements o; Jehad are not wasted.
•	It formed a commission to work out a detailed plan for the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan and an Islamic army.
- It was not opposed the five-point UN plan if it led to the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
Those commandos who did not take part in the meeting will be in formed about the decisions of the meeting.