SFEHRIt fJEUS yat.10, KQ. 3,       1/2/I98S,   PB5E  9
    district on December IS The ,iigb.tis>§ lasted for sis days. Five Mujahideen were martyred and 20 were wounded But the enemy suffered heavier casualties Around 30 soldiers were hilled, two tanks and one truck were destroyed
                                                  KABUL PROVINCE
    29/32/1%?' Mujahideen under Use command of Mullah Ezat, Jami'at chief commander in Paghman. ambushed an enemy supply convoy along the Kabul-Paghman road. A number of vehicles were set on fir? by the Mujahideen RPG fire .(no specific figure is given) A Jeep was also set ablaze and ail of its occupants who were members of WAl> were killed. The convoy was cot able to reach Paghman and returned back
    Mujahideen had no casualties in the operation.
    30/12/1987: Hundreds of prisoners from Pol-e'Charkhi were forcibly taken into the Army Division No.8 (Oargha Division) Knowing that the prisoners were trying to escape from the army, the Mujahideen launched a night attack withlO?mnx rockets As a result, most-ofthe prisoners were able to fiee and join the Mujahideen (the number is not mentioned in the report'*
    During the operation, some logistic depots were also set on fire and smoke couid be seen from 4 30 - 9:00 a.m
    26/12/1987; Mujahideen attacked on an enemy post in Kamfci area of Afghan dab village (between Kabul and Paghman) This post was earlier established to block a Mujahideen supply route and prevent them from penetrating Paghmac The operation started at 4 00 pm and lasted for two hours As a result, the post was captured and the Mujahideen seized 25 AK-47s. one DSchl and one 82mm mortar. Forty enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded.
    Three Mujahideen were injured during the operation.
    27/12/1987 Mujahideen launched attacks with heavy weapons on Army Division No 8 and an enemy post around the city of Kabul One DSA military bus was hit and one depot of ammuniton belonging to the mentioned Division was destroyed Ten puppet soldiers were either killed or wounded
                                       RYZHKOV !N NORDIC COUNTRIES
    The Soviet Prime Minister, Ryzhkov, paid official visits to the two Nordic countries of Sweden and Norway in the second week of January. The purpose of the trip was to improve Soviet relations with the two neighboring countries.
    It is natural for the government and people of these countries to ask the Soviets about their aggressive war in Afghanistan. Is draw attention to the grave situation in Afghanistan and continued occupation of a small, non-aligned and neighboring country by a superpower, both the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan and Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan which are volunteer solidarity organizations, invited Mohammad Eshaq, a political officer of jamiat Island Afghanistan to present the Mujahideen s side of the story
    People in these countries are in a good position to understand the situation the Afghan people are facing. The two countries are comparatively small and have common borders with the Soviet Union Soviet activities in these countries in the form of violation of their air space and sea waters has continued for a long time and has been the source of concern to the people of these countries
    It is natural for the people of the two countries to be worried about Soviet intensions, especially when they have invaded Afghanistan and continued their criminal war there for eight years.