AFGHANews Vol7, No 10, May 15, 1991, page ©
Red Mawlawi praises Mujahideen's kindness
A regime religious figure who surrendered to the Mujahideen in Khost has denied the report of his execution by the Mujahideen.
BBC, quoting a Pakistani journalist, had reported that the pro regime Mawlawi Gula Jan was hanged by the Mujahideen in public for his anti Mujahideen propaganda before the fall of Khost.
Talking to Mujahideen Radio, Gula Jan said not only he was alive but he and his family were treated by the Mujahideen kindly. He said: "Commander Haqqani treated me well and I did not expect such a good treatment from the Mujahideen."
Gula Jan who still considers himself the head of Khost Ulama said that the regime officers and soldier did not adhere to the Islamic code conduct: they drank alcohol and committed other un-Islamic acts; they did not fast during Ramadhan and did not offer their obligatory prayers.
He denied his indulgence in anti-Mujahideen propaganda claiming that
he spent his time advising regime people to stick to Islamic values.
The Kabul regime made the false report of Gula Jan's execution a propaganda event Memorial services were held in which ranking regime officers took part They lauded the services of Gula Jan and accused Mujahideen of killing a religious scholar who was a prisoners of war.
Gula Jan was the chairman of "Ulama and Spiritual Leaders" of Khost This organization, financed by regime, indulges in anti-Mujahideen propaganda by issuing religious decrees in support of regime.
Religious bodies in areas controlled by regime are supervised and financed by KHAD, the regime secret police, to wage propaganda war against the Mujahideen and paint an Islamic image for Najib and his ruling party. The financial assistance to these bodies comes from the so-called progressive Islamic countries. Iraq, for example, used to give aid to the Ministry of Religious Affairs of the Kabul regime.
Mujahideen open bank
The first Mujahideen bank was opened by Commander Ahmed Shah Masood on April 22 in Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar,
Hindukush News Agency reported.
The bank will provide financial services to traders and its transactions will be based on Islamic laws , The branches of the bank will be opened soon in other parts of the country. Opening of the first Mujahideen bank will have an import effect on the economy of the areas ruled by the Mujahideen.
Labor Day celebrated
May Day was celebrated in Kabul by holding indoor meetings while in the past, the communist regime organized marches in the streets. The green flags and banners had replaced red flags and banners. May Day proceedings started with the recitation of Holy Quran rather than playing the International anthem.
News from battlefields
From page (2)
Baba, Qala-i-Dudamast, Qala-i-Agha killing one womep and wounding three other civilian^.
Badakhshan Province
The Mujahideen of Jami'at under the command of Basir Khalid shot down two regime helicopters near Faizabad, the provincial capital of Badakhshan, with anti-aircraft guns on April 27. One of the helicopters crashed in Kohna Qala area from which the following items were recovered:
•Kalashnikov rifles: 23 •Heavy machineguns: 2 •Ammunition of different types: 495 boxes
The second helicopter crashed south of Kukcha River, close to the Soviet border.
In retaliation, the regime forces attacked the Mujahideen position in Dashti-Darsak and Dasht-i-Bandagar. The attack .was repulsed by the Mujahideen killing and wounding 40 of die enemy soldiers. The Mujahideen seized nine Kalashnikov rifles. One Mujahid was killed in the operation.
The aerial bombing of the liberated areas around Faizabad continued when this report was filed. There has
been casualties among the civilians but details are not available.
Jawzjan Province
The Mujahideen of Jami'at captured 15 enemy soldiers in Sar-i-Pul District on April 25 and seized the following arms and ammunition:
•ZPU machinegun: 1
•	DShK machineguns: 2
•	Kalashnikov rifles: 20
•	RPG rocket launchers: 6
•	A large quantity of ammunition. Qazi Yasin, Jami'at Chief
Commander in Jawzjan, has reported that the Mujahideen lost seven men in the operation. Fighting continued when this report was filed.
Faryab Province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured three posts in Shereen Tagab District inflicting heavy casualties on the enemy on April 18. Commander Sayyed Allauddin and one Mujahid were killed in this operation aid three Mujahideen sustained injuries (read obituaries on page 5).
From page (7)
Union into Europe, the Middle East and South Asia. So much for principles. If there is going to be an end to the evil empire, then it should be properly orchestrated, not threatening the new world order or any other order.
Anderson
Stockholm
Sweden
9{eCp us puBCisd
‘PCease send your donations to die fottounng account numBer:
JTJ&VD Account 0^{p. 735-37 5{aBi6 ‘BanfiLtd ‘Iehkgd Bcda, Peshawar Pakistan