Vol7, No 12	June	15,1991
Moderates form 3-party alliance
The three moderate parties of Harakat, headed by Mawlawi Nabi, Jabha, headed by Mujaddidi, and Mahaz, led by Gailani, have formed a new coalition to coordinate their activities. The three parties are also members of the AIG .
These parties had entered similar arrangements in the past too. The new feature of the coalition is the good relations of these parties with the US and Saudi Arabia because they send their Mujahideen to take part in the Gulf war.
The new coalition has left the door open for other parties. They might like Jami'at and Shia parties to join them. If they can include other parties in the coalition, it will emerge as a political grouping led by the so-called moderates. The new coalition is naturally close to the line promoted by the former king.
. The coalition hopes that the Saudis and US not only support it morally but financially. There is a good opportunity for this cooperation because the so-called fundamentalist parties have made the US and Saudis angry by not sending their Mujahideen to fight against Iraq. This coalition, however, does not have the right elements in it to steer the Mujahideen out of the current political and military stalemate.
Kabul plane bombs village in Tajikistan
The Kabul regime admitted that one rtf its planes bombed a Soviet village by mistake on May 28, killing four people and injuring several, TASS reported.
The village, Namadguti Poyeh at the bank of the Pyandzh river, was mistaken for a village in Zebak, Badakhshan. Several buildings and power transmission lines were damaged in the
attarir
The Kabul regime has regretted the incident and has offered compensation for the victims of the air raid. This is the first incident of its type since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979. The bombed village is located in the Tajikstan republic of the Soviet Union.
The Kabul regime has said it will punish the pilot because he has killed Soviet citizens. If he had killed Afghans, he would been given a cash prize and aceitificale of bravery.
Najib's Herat victory claim
An Iranian freelance journalist has contradicted Kabul regime claims that it has forced the Mujahideen out of Zindajan District.
Feraydoon Ganjoor, who had just returned from an eight-day visit to Zindajan, told BBC on June 5 that he met with Ismail Khan in Zindajan; fighting continued there and the- Mujahideen had suffered few casualties.
Kabul regime troops launched a large-scale surprise attack against Zindajan District, west of the city of Herat and about 80 kilometers from the border with Iran, on May 4.
Ganjoor said Zindajan was important for the Mujahideen because it was the center of Jehad in Herat Ismail Khan, the famous Mujahideen com-mander in western Afghanistan, spends most of his time in Zindajan. The Mujahideen had established a hospital and several committees in that city.
Ganjoor said Zindajan was sdll be-sieged by regime troops. The Kabul regime attacked Zindajan with more than 6000 men after intense aerialbombard-ments and rocketing.
Ganjoor said that aerial bombardments continued while he was there. Regime jets bombed the area up to 25 times each day, day, and night, he added.	7	.	'	-
Ganjoor described how dead bodies of militiamen killed by Mujahideen and animals killed in bombardments
had fouled the air.
He said the city was almost empty of civilians. "I only saw a few old men and one seven-year old child in Zindajan,” Ganjoor said.
He said half of the buildings in Zindajan were destroyed and a quarter of the rest were damaged. The vaccination center built by UNICEF was also destroyed by the regime.
In reply to a question about the claim of th<^ Kabul regime that it has forced Ismail Khan and his Mujahideen out of Zindajan, he said: "This claim is untrue. Ismail Khan is still there and the area is controlled by the Mujahideen. This fighting has such animportance for the Mujahideen that Ismail Khanhas asked riiany of his important commanders, like Allauddin Khan, Ghalib Khan and Haji- Mir to come from other parts of Herat and fight in Zindajan. The Mujahideen have built fortified bunkers which protect them well. Their casualties are few.”
He said that about 50,000 people of Zindajan have became refugees. About 10,000 of these have crossed into Iran, the rest have scattered throughout villages in the liberated areas. Supply routes from Iran were under regime attack, maldng»it difficult to bring food and medicine. Food shortages were evident
Afghan girl disrupts Gorby’s speech
Shahla Sultani, an Afghan girl living as a refugee in Norway, interrupted Gorbachev's speech on the occasion of receiving Noble Peace Prize twice by demanding the end of Soviet support for the Kabul regime and the clearing of Soviet land mines left in Afghanistan. She was taken out of the hall by police.
The incident received wide coverage because major world TV networks were present in the hall to cover the event. Shahla said she wanted to draw world attention to the suffering of the Afghan people at the hands of the man receiving the peace prize.