AEGHANews Vol 4.. No 9,
AFGHANews
PO Box 264. Peshawsr-pakistan Tel: 41381
Editorial
May 1.. 1988.. Page 4
wounded Mu/aJiid displays art work
                            Ignoring Mujahideen causes failure
   REHABILITATION of five million Afghan refugees and the reconstruction of their economy needs the involvement of the Afghan Resistance. Any attempt to ignore the effective forces in Afghanistan could lead to the failure of the program and cause great suffering for the people in that war-tom country.
   The Geneva accord envisages the return of the refugees to Afghanistan. Rehabilitation of more them five million refugees will be the biggest operation of its kind ever organised by the United Nations.
   Several countries have shown their readiness in providing proper assistance to the UN organizations to organize the program. This program is facing many practical difficulties because of the complex situation created by the Geneva accord.
   The first problem is the division of the country into two regions. The occupied regions which comprise about 20% of the land and the rest -which is controlled by the Resistance The occupied regions will shrink as the Soviets start to pull their forces out. This process has already started.
   The continuation of the war is another problem.Since the Resistance was not involved in the Geneva accord., the war to overthrow the ille-gal puppet regime in Kabul will continue.
   One of the main hurdles for the UN is the membership of the puppet regime in that Organization. This will force the UN agencies to work through the Kabul regime
   The refugees are part of the Resistance. They will not return because the regime has forgiven their crime 0) of opposing the Soviet invasion but believe in the continuation, of the armed struggle to eliminate the Communist regime. These refugees vent to go to the liberated areas. This means that they have to pass through the front lines separating the two warring sides. .
   The rehabilitation and reconstruction work will take place mostly in the areas where the refugees are destined to go. These areas are controlled by the Resistance.
   All this requires active participation of the Resistance if any positive work that is supposed to be done. If the Resistance is ignored who will provide security for the UN personnel who have to organize
                                                                                        (see next page)
    'I REMEMBER Afghanistan’ was the name of an art piece worked hy a war-wounded Afghan displayed in a painting exhibition opened on March 23 in Geneva.
    Sarmuliah, an Afghan I artist from Jawsjan province was engaged in tfi® armed struggle against the Soviets when he was injured seriously.
    Ke was taken to Switzerland for treatment and as a result he was able to resume painting. He is not able to hold the brush so he tapes it to his index finger.
    Sstmullahs art work in the form of watercolor paintings, was displayed when the last round of
Gene to talks about Afghanistan were in progress. The purpose of the exhibition was to draw the attention of the world to the plight of the people of Afghanistan at a crucial time.
   Samioilah is deternined to continue struggle against the Soviets through creative aT+. work.