AFGHANews Vol5, No20, October 15,1989, page©
Obituary
Com. Qari Kamaluddin
Kamaluddin, son of Fakhruddin, was bom 35 years ago in Khench village in Panjshir.
His father was a merchant who wanted his son to study Islam. Kamaluddin attended Madrasa and memorized half of the Holy Quran, and got the title of Qari (one who has memorized the Quran). He attended school up to the sixth class.
Qari Kamaluddin spent most of his life in Panjshir, except for a short while when he lived in Puli-Khumri town of Baghlan province.
When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, Qari joined. the Mujahideen. He showed his talent in fighting and leadership and very soon was appointed the deputy commander of a mobile unit. His unit inflicted a crushing defeat on regime forces in Gulbahar (at the mouth of the Panjshir valley) in 1981.
He served as the local commander of Khench for a while, and then was transferred to lead the Mujahideen in the war against the enemy in Kuran-o-Munjan. Despite his personal courage he was not successful in Capturing Kuran garrison.
For nine months he helped the Mujahideen from Jami'at in different parts of Badakhshan to re-organize.
. During the famous seventh offensive against Panjshir in 1984, he entered the valley and engaged the enemy commandos in different places. He lost 12 of his men in these fighting but inflicted heavier losses on the enemy. He was wounded twice.
Qari Kamaluddin was appointed the commander of Dara sub-district, which had strategic importance for the Mujahideen. -
The enemy had succeeded in buying off a local, person, Malik Jalal. When the Soviets launched an attack against Dara in the fall of 1984, a group of militiamen were brought to the upper part of Dara valley to establish a tribal battalion. If the enemy plan had succeeded, this base, with the help of Colonel Sarwar in neighboring Nooristan, could have created severe problems for Masood.
Qari faced a difficult task. He was able to cut the road between the Soviet base in Keraman and the militia groups in Astana, then attacked the militiamen after crossing the snow covered mountain. The enemy was defeated.
Qari suffered personally during his assignment in Dara: his wife, two children and his sister were killed in an aer-
ial bombardment.
Commander Kamaluddin had the honor of leading the Mujahideen in decisive fighting against the enemy garrison in Tanbana in the spring of 1988. More than 400 enemy soldiers were killed or captured and a large quantity of arms were captured. After this defeat the enemy was forced to leave the valley.
He was assigned another important mission in the strategically important.
Salang valley, though which the famous Salang highway passes. First he crushed the militia groups on both sides of the highway. At the beginning of the current year he blocked the road for the enemy military convoys for two months; captured 700 soldiers and officers, and seized more than 1000 guns.
Recently he was told to launch fresh operations, and he successfully annihilated several posts in Salang and blocked the road.
On October first he was killed along with two Mujahideen after he had overrun one of the enemy posts. He has left behind two children. He will long be remembered for his services, and his death is a great loss to the Mujahideen.
Ranking Kabul diplomat defects
Amanullah Nazari, a regime diplomat, has defected to the Mujahideen, MEDIA reported
The 55-year-old diplomat said that after Najib became the president in 1986, agents of Khad, the regime’s secret police, were sent to Kabul regime missions abroad, posing as diplomats.
He estimated that 80 percent of the regime’s diplomatic corps are Khad agents.
Mr. Nazari was the director of studies and research at Kabul’s Ministry of the Foreign Affairs.
First aid used as PR ploy
The International Committee for the Red Cross (ICRC ) refused to build hospitals in Mlujafaideen-controlled areas when the Supervisory Council proposed the idea to the visiting delegation of that organization in August.
A delegation of ICRC visited the North in summer and talked to Com. Masood about the medical and prison-eisof-war issues.
On the prisoners issue, they wanted to collect data about Soviet POWs and seek their release. They met some Soviet prisoners in the custody of the Supervisory Council who refused to go back to the Soviet Union.
ICRC offered treatment of wounded Mujahideen at its hospital in Kabul which was rejected. The Mujahideen then asked ICRC to open hospitals in the liberated areas. The delegation said it was unable to respond immediately.
A representative of ICRC who had participated in Tehran Seminar on Afghanistan told Afghanews that his organization cannot open hospitals in the liberated areas unless they are supplied through Kabul. The Mujahideen do not agree with such an arrangement ICRC's readiness to give first aid to the Mujahideen serves no medical purpose.lt is just a mean of contact with the war fronts.
The ICRC delegation was carrying radios in order to keep in touch with their Kabul office. The Mujahideen refused to allow this for security reasons.
ICRC has sent many delegations to liberated areas in Afghanistan, but so far has done no major medical work in Afghanistan. ICRC's only hospital in Afghanistan is in Kabul. In theory it treats all Afghans, but in practice treats only those under control of the regime.