AEGHANews Vol 4, Ho 16,
AFGHANews
PO Bex 264,Pesheimr-Ps3siSto Tsi: 41381
EDITORIAL
Formation of Islamic army
THE decision of the Council of the North to form an | army in order to deal with the situation arising from Soviet troop withdrawal is a timely decision in the right direction, j In this, the fifth session, the Council of the North ! decided to form a guerilla army. In this meeting I representative commanders from ten provinces of the North { and North-Eastern region of Afghanistan had participated,
) The idea of the formation of a guerilla army is as old as guerilla warfare Itself. When the war reaches its final stages, the need to deal with the enemy with a large force is j felt. To capture enemy bases, to conquer cities, to cut the supply lines of the enemy effectively and to do all these things in an orderly fashion and maintain law and order t after the enemy's defeat, a trained army is needed, j The withdrawal of Soviet troops has created a new j military situation In the country. Before the Soviet ; withdrawal the war against the Soviets had a defensive I nature, in that type of warfare small groups could do the job ] effectively. As the Soviets started to pull out their troops ! the situation changed. Now the purpose is not to inflict j fosses on the enemy and struggle for the survival of the j Resistance; but to eliminate the enemy and take control of [ the country. To do this a new approach is needed.
In the areas controlled by the Council of the North the primary steps to move from a defensive war to an offensive one has been taken in the course of several years of the struggle. Formation of the local, combat, mobile units and central forces were preliminary steps towards forming a regutar guerilla army.
Now that the Mujahideen in the North-East, control a large territory in a very strategic area, having enough manpower and a good amount of resources, there are no practical difficulties Jn forming the Islamic army. The work of formation of such an army has already started and j effective training programs are under way,
I There also exist enough experienced fumor [ commanders.The Idea of the formation of an army by the Mujahideen has been criticised in some circles belonging to j political parties in the Resistance. The critic ism is based on j ignorance. They have not understood the phases of guerilla [ warfare and do not have any practical experience themselves. It should he added here that the formation of the guerilla army does not mean abandoning tactics of guerilla warfare completely. Formation of the army is an advanced stage of this type of warfare without which the final victory is not possible.
Our advice to the critics of the idea of the formation of the Islamic army is that they should also take proper steps to organize themselves to make sure that the victory is quick and the country is run in a smooth way. jam Fat Is ready to share its organizational experience with them. It is never too late to learn.
BTOM
August 15,1988, Page 5
Embassy staff quit kabui
SOME Western countries have decided to remove their staff and families from kabui in the wake of the worsening security situation and Mujahideen pressure on the capital.
Among other Western countries, West Germany has recently announced that it will bring home most of its embassy staff and has also advised other countries to do so,
Britain, foUo'wing Wast Germany’s decision, instructed its embassy personnel, including non-essential staff and dependents of British citizens numbering more than 50 to evacuate the capital because of ’©hat it described as a. ‘deteriorating security situation.”
Britain has also recommended nationals of Australia and New Zealand to leave the country.
Embassy evacuation started soon after the Mujahideen accelerated their operations around Kabul and targeted some of the Communist block embassies.
Bulgaria was the first to move families of its embassy staff after a rocket exploded near the embassy injuring two of its diplomats.
All these incidents point to the growing insecurity and instability of the Communist regime as the Russians are leaving and. as a result, more foreign missions will leave the country.
wmmmmtmammmmammm