                                          AFGHAN NEWS VOL. H, NO-8. 15/4/19S6. P- 3.
                                                           TAKHAR PROVICE
       As it was reported in Afghan New (No.7), Soviet-puppet forces launched an offensive against Mujahideen of Khanabad and Takhar. The main mission of the offensive was to establish more security posts around the mentioned cities and resupply their garrisons from Kunduz to Keshm of Badakhshan Province.
       According to a report sent by Qari Rahmatullah, the provincial Ameer of Jaraiat in Kunduz, Mujahideen of different parties         fought  together against    the enemy.  The enemy      suffered a
   lot of casulties. Several high ranking puppet officers were killed. The enemy heavily bombed ~ the area as a result of which about 100 civilians and some Mujahideen were killed. Mujahideen made use of 107mm rockets in their attacks.
       According to another report sent by Mawlawi Shah Mohammad, one of the commanders of Takhar, on March ISth, the           convoy  enrotite Farkhar  district was  ambushed by    Mujahideen
   from Jami'at Isiami. In three hours of fighting S tanks and two trucks of the enemy were destroyed either by SPG fire or land mines. Hie enemy was making use of artillary and BM-21 ground-to-ground rockets         against  Mujahideen as      a result of  which some     Mujahideen
   were martyred.                                       ,
       On March nth, the convoy returning back from Kalfgan(a sub-District of Takhar provice) was attacked by Mujahideen, the following items were captured.
        1-  34 different types of guns.
        2-  A large amount of ammunition.
        3-  One electrical generator.
        Several tanks and trucks were destroyed by land mines or RpG fire. Seven women belonging
   to the puppet officer’s families were captured. They were released the following day.
   6/3,"T 986.
* ------------
       Mujahideen attacked Militia posts in Khawja Hafez village of Yangi Qala District, captured
   five AK-47 and injured two militiamen.
 : 13/3.-1986.
       Mujahideen  attacked militia posts in Jarbashi village       of Yangi Qala District. Seven guns
   were captured and tow militiamen were injured. In another clash with militiamen in Eshan Abad village,   one militiaman     was injured and four   guns   were       captured. Two Mujahideen were
   martyred during this operation.
                                                           HERAT PROVINCE
   12/3/1986.
       Mujahideen  attacked Herat      Hotel where Soviets    and  their       puppets had formed a meeting.
               A large number of enemy were killed including some Soviet advisors and tow puppet regim's
   high ranking officers.
- ~l3/3/1986.
       The enemy    surrounded the     western part of the   Herat  city.      A big Soviet-Puppet force was
   involved in the operation. During the operation, which lasted for five days. Mujahideen resisted well and killed 20 enemy soldiers and injured 70 others. Some armoured cars and trucks were also destroyed. Seventeen AK-47 was captured by the Mujahideen. Five Mujahideen including Abdul Satar, a junior commander, were martyred. One helicopter was hit by a SAM-7 which took fire and crashed in Qala-i-Shater area.