AFGHANews Vol 6, No 20 & 21, November 1,1990, page Q
Editorial
New strategy deserves support
The adoption of a new strategy by the Council of Commanders (CC) and fresh efforts to reduce tension between Mujahideen parties which have taken place in the past month are encouraging developments. They have raised Afghans' hopes for a Mujahideen victory over the communists in Kabul.
The most recent of the commanders' meetings in which the new strategy was evolved was an important development in the history of the Afghan Jehad.
The political and military stalemate in Afghanistan dictated the need for drastic changes. After the Soviet troop withdrawal the Mujahideen achieved no major military victories, largely because of their failure to choose military targets properly and their lack of coordination. The Mujahideen parties' efforts to create a credible political alternative to the Kabul regime also failed, both because of their poor progress on the battlefield and because they lacked a reasonable political strategy.
The resulting stalemate demoralized the people of Afghanistan and disappointed the rest of the world, which had supported the Mujahideen in their long struggle for freedom.
The formation of the CC was a positive step towards ending this undesirable situation. Commander Masood, who had long considered convening a meeting of major commanders, was not able to take part in the first and second sessions of the CC in Paktia due to logistical problems. His participation in the extraordinary session of commanders on the border was a clear victory for CC.
The decisions which the CC reached in a relatively short time indicate similarity of views among the commanders regarding the major problems facing the country and their solutions.
The new strategy, which deals with political and military issues inside Afghanistan, seems very practical. Military operations start against weak targets and gradually are intensified. It makes no sense to gamble all the achievements of Jehad in a single risky operation. The new strategy also addresses a serious political problem in the country: the maintenance of law and order in the liberated areas. Opening supply lines to all the Mujahideen is another objective of the new strategy.
Without peace in the liberated areas, one cannot expect the ordinary people to stand behind the Mujahideen in their military efforts. Moreover, in such circumstances the regime will find it easy to infiltrate and mislead ordinary people.
The most important aspect of the new strategy is its Afghan nature. The idea of convening the CC has come from the Afghans themselves. The new strategy evolved through discussions among commanders in a free and friendly atmosphere.
Cooperation by the political leadership is essential to make the strategy successful. At the start, some political leaders had hesitated to support the CC . Most of them now support the CC and its plans. Masood played a key role in winning the leaders' backing.
Jami'at expects that the leaders of the Jehad will extend their full support to the CC and its program. It also expects the external supporters of Jehad to help the CC and its efforts to break the current military and political stalemate in Afghanistan.
Reduced tension among the Mujahideen parties, especially between Hezb and Jami'at, was needed to implement the decisions of the commanders' council. Commander Masood took the first step and invited Hikmatyar for talks.The two sides agreed to solve their differences in the 13 provinces of north-east through the ballot box.
These developments must worry the Kabul regime and its main supporter, the Soviets Union. They will try by both open and covert means to sabotage it.
Turn to page (8)
Militia commander killed in Herat
Sayyed Ahmad Sultani, a prominent militia commander in Herat, was killed by the Mujahideen from Jami'at on October 12 inside the city of Herat Some of his men were also killed and wounded in the attack.
Sayyed Ahmad was a Mujahideen commander until 1986. He was the commander of Jami’at in Guzara District and led about 400 armed men.
The Kabul regime described Sayyed Ahmad's defection a major victory for its "National Reconciliation Program" at that time.
Sayyed Ahmad served the Soviets and the regime successfully. He in creased the number of his followers and expanded his territory. Making use of resources given to him by the Soviets, good public relations and tribal connections, he soon emerged as a militia figure on national level. He belonged to Ali Zay tribe, some of whom live along the border with Iran.
Despite joining the enemy and his frequent trips to Kabul and Moscow, he kept up a pious front and attended religious ceremonies. This made him more acceptable to simple and unsophisticated people.
Sayyed Ahmad and Khaliqyar together spread the influence of the militias in Herat.
Sayyed Ahmad had close contact with KHAD, the secret police of the Kabul regime, and his tactics reflected his friendship with the secret police.
Sayyed Ahmad had a rival within the regime: Daud, another militia commander working closely with the Khalq faction. Daud was killed in a gun battle with his rivals in Kabul some weeks before Sayyed Ahmad was killed.
After the Pushtoon Zarghoon incident, in which some ranking regime officers were killed and the current Prime Minister of the regime, Khaliqyar, was injured, Sayyed Ahmad's death is a serious blow to the regime in Herat.
Sayyed Ahmad was promoted to the rank of Lieutenant General in recognition of his service to the regime. His funeral ceremonies were attended by many ranking government officers. After Sayyed Ahmad's death the Mujahideen increased their activities against his men and captured many posts and liberated several villages.