AFGHANews Vol 8, No 24, December 15, 1992, page©
Dear editor,
I hope that you and your family arc well, and that your important work for the reconstruction of Afghanistan is continuing fruitfully. In appreciation of your assistance to Fazel Haq Saikal and myself when we were working in Peshawar earlier this year, I enclose a copy of our * International Peace Academy Occasional Paper: Political Order in Post-Communist Afghanistan (Boulcr: Lynne Rienner, 1992), which examines a number of steps which might be taken to assist the restoration of social and political stability.
I also enclose a cheque to cover the costs of my subscription to AFGHANews, which remains an indispensable source of information for those of us who are trying to follow Afghan affairs from afar.
Dr. William Ma’ey
Australia
Dear editor,
I want to thank you for sending me AFGHANews for the last many years, particularly since the Mujahideen government moved from. Pakistan to Afghanistan and the communist government has moved to the pages of history. I have found this publication to be very informative and useful.
In one of your earlier issues of AFGHANews from Kabul you reported on a conversation between you, Mr. Masood, and Professor Rabbani regarding the importance of FREE PRESS in Afghanistan. I could not agree with you more Without a free and impartial press, it would be impossible to establish a democratic system of government where issues could be freely discussed, all opinions heard, all options evaluated, and the best decisions made. I am looking forward to a day when a freely elected government takes control in Afghanistan.
I wish the current Mujahideen government best of luck for working toward paving the way for the establishment of an elected government in my beloved Afghanistan. In the meantime , I hope all Mujahideen groups realize that the people of Afghanistan have i suffered more than their fair share. ] Until last April the people suffered be-j cause of a communist government , which was imposed upon our people by
a major imperialistic power. It took the cooperation of the Mujahideen parties and the sacrifice of the entire nation to pul an end to an illegal and unrepresentative government. There doesn't appear to be any legitimate reason now to inflict more pain and suffering upon the already devastated community.
Reading about all the fighting and destruction especially in Kabul makes me sad that the Mujahideen groups cannot solve their disagreements peacefully and through discussions and compromises. As I recall from my days in the Faculty of Engineering and the Kabul University dormitory in the late sixties and early seventies, many of the current Mujahideen leaders were among the leading figures who fought against the Parchamces and Khalqees side by side to reverse the spread of communism in Afghanistan.
I believe it is time for all -Mujahideen parlies to set aside their differences and work toward establishment of a democratically elected government. Afghanistan is big enough for all Afghans to live side by side in peace and prosperity. If a particular party believes that it has a larger support than others give them credit for, eventually the people will speak and people will elect the best servants to govern them. Also, as the government moves towards democracy, the Mujahideen should attempt to learn the bitter lessons that the Islamic Republic of Iran learned and make sure they do not repeat Iran’s mistakes and copy those policies and procedures that worked.
In summery, I would like to repeat the message of your June 1,1992 editorial tided "Elections sole path to peace." The goal of the interim government of Afghanistan should be to bring peace to the already deeply wounded populace and work toward a speedy election. Let the vote of the people speak. Afghanistan cannot afford any more destruction and the people have suffered more than enough.
To help you with the continued publication of your very fine fortnightly paper, I am enclosing a check.
Zia A. Yamayee, Ph. D.
Dean, School of Engineering
Gonzaga University
Spokane - U.S.A.
Oulabuddin Shtrzat, a trader, bar donated two cars and S50G0 to the commission organizing the Hal-o-Aqd council.1
•••
The binhday of Guru Babt Nanak, the spiritual leader of Sikhs was celebrated by the Hindus anc Sikhs of Kabul in Kana-i-Parwan or November 13 The Minister o’ Information and Culture Mohan:mac Sedique Chakari attended the ceremony along with the. Indian ambassador in Kabul..................
Security forces in Kabul sei/ec 33 guns which were being smuggler out or capita] on November 5. The smugglers were arrested.
I •	•••
| . Prof Rabbani has congrariilatec Yaslr Arafat on the occasion of tin I anniversary of formation of tl>e Stats 1 of Palestine. He assured the : Palestinian leader of Afghanistan's 'support foe the right of self determination of the people 0
Palestine.
v*.

m&xy?
deputy governor o: Hqjt Shemali has escapee unhurt from a office. The A Shcmali had left the has accused <t. i-Islami of Prof. Sayya has rejected the allegation .
Admission examinations for thi Ningarhar University was given It 1600 boys and girls, Those passing the exam will be accepted in agnail turtc education, theology and hcaltl faculties. ■ :=e:
f
r "afeyfj

• M
[ In interview with’ Iranian TV an* Radio. Geiiwal Dostum has claime* that be commands 150,000 armci mem The claim seems highly exag gcrated. Dostum used to say that b had 30,000 armed men in Kabu while in reality bis fortes in Kabu were less than 3000 mete •••
Sayyed Salman Gailani, the fbi ctgn minister ol the Islamic State, a) tended the sixth extraordinary scssio of OIC foreign minister's confcrcnc to discuss the situation in Bos nit Afghanistan has cut its diplomatic re labon with Bclgrad