Vol 7, No 23	December	1,1991
King's men busted at Kabul rally
Dozens of armed men broke up a rally of the supporters of the former king in Kabul, forcing them to abandon a planned march near the presidential palace and on to the Soviet Embassy.
About 200 counter-demonstrators forced the 150 pro-king demonstrators to end their meeting one hour after it had started.
The rally was organized by Zia Khan Nassery, a Harvard-trained US citizen.
"Down with the regime. . . dissolve the KHAD (Afghan secret police)" were some of the large banners that Nassery had erected in a central Kabul park.
The internal security ministry had given permission to Nassery to hold the rally, in line with the government's recent reformist policies.
A regime official disclaimed any responsibility for disturbing the rally, saying "Whatever happened during the rally was not the government's fault. It was between the civilians."
Zia Khan is a strange man. He appeared in Pakistan in 1979, claiming to run a news agency from a luxurious hotel in Islamabad. He visited Kunar Province, where he was photographed operating an anti-aircraft gun. Some Pakistani papers described him as a Mujahideen leader.
He went to Iran but was expelled. American embassy documents, published by Iranian students who occu pied the embassy from late 1979 to early 1981, revealed that Nassery had been trying to pose as a leader of the Afghan resistance in order to muster support. Many people suspected him to be an agent of Western secret agencies.
In the mid-80s, he started to publish a paper in America by the name of "Afghan News." In his paper, he ridiculed the Mujahideen parties and sup-
Mujahideen, Soviets find common ground
The Soviet Union has them.
m*
To page (3)
agreed to the formation of an Islamic interim government in Afghanistan, to which all the state powers are to be transferred, and the Mujahideen have agreed to release some Soviet prisoners.
The agreement was signed during a visit to Moscow by a Mujahideen delegation, headed by Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani, from November 11 to 15.
The delegation held several rounds of talks with Russian vice president Alexander Rotskio, the then-Foreign Minster Boris Pankin and current Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze.
The two sides discussed all aspects of the Afghan situation in a frank manner. The Mujahideen delegation took deep interest in the talks, and its members cooperated with Prof. Rabbani at all stages of the talks.
The Soviet delegation included representatives from the Russian Federation, the Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Kazakh is tan. The Mujahideen asked for the republics' representatives' participation in the talks so that the agreement would be acceptable to all of them. After days of talks, the two sides agreed on the following points:
•The 1979 Soviet invasion of Afghanistan was condemned.
•All the state power should be transferred to an Islamic interim government.
•The Mujahideen will hold general elections in Afghanistan within two years after the formation of the interim government. The elections will be supervised by the UN and OIC.
• All agreements signed between Kabul and Moscow since the April Coup off 1978 will be reviewed by the interim Islamic government. It will have the power to endorse or reject
• Both sides will cooperate on the release of POWs. The Mujahideen will release the first group of Soviet POWs before the end of the year.
•The Soviet Union agreed to cut arms supplies (including fuel for military use) before the start of next year. They also agreed to withdraw their military advisers from Afghanistan before January 1992.
•The Soviets agreed to take part in reconstruction of Afghanistan.
•A joint commission will be formed, within a month, to supervise the implementation of the agreement between the two sides.
The Mujahideen who participated in the talks described the agreement as a historic achievement for the people of Afghanistan. The result of the Moscow talks surprised many people, who predicted much less progress.
The agreement has been supported by Pakistan, Iran and Saudi Arabia, the three principal supporters of the Mujahideen. The US government is also in favor of dialogue between the Mujahideen and the Soviets. The UN and OIC supported the outcome of the Moscow talks and showed readiness to cooperate in bringing peace to Afghanistan.
Many field commanders, including Masood and Ismail Khan, and ordinary Afghans, both inside and in exile, were pleased with the result of the Moscow talks
The supporters of former king had mixed reactions. They supported the agreement but were unhappy that they were not included in the talks.
Three Mujahideen parties - Hezb of Hikmatyar, Hezb of Khalis ant Ittihad of Prof. Sayyaf — opposed the results of the agreement.
Prof. Sayyaf called it a "conspiracy against Islam." The council of com manders did not take a public position on the issue because of differences off
To page (3)