AFGHANews Vol 6, No 1, January 1,1990, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Mawlawi Abdur Razaq of Pushal
Maulawi Abdul Razaq, the oldest commander of the Mujahideen was born 83 years ago in the village of Kolangar in Logar Province.
He presently lives in the village of Pushal in Western Noons tan. Mawlawi Abdur Razaq came from a poor family. His father, Naseeruddin converted to Islam during the reign of King Amir Abdurrahman Khan (1894-1896).
Abdul Razak's family was fenced into exile by the reigning King. This forced his father and brother to seek work in Logar far from their beloved mountains. Mean while Abdul Razak completed his primary school education in Kolangar district but was unable to go on to further education due to the lack of money. "His family was poor and his life was very hard. They did not ha\^e any source of income," said his representative in Peshawar, Mohammad Yaqoob Pushali. His father asked a Mullah in Kolangar to accept Mawlawi Abdur Razaq to work for him and in the mean time learn from him.
Mawlawi Abdur Razaq lived under the guidance of the Mullah for four years, during which time he learnt the basics of Islam. After that he went to Kabul and stayed with another famous Maulawi to further his Islamic knowledge. At the age of 39, Mawlawi Abdur Razaq returned to his home town of Pushal where he established a madra-sa (Islamic school), built a mosque, and assumed the role of an educator and village leader. He develop a very close affinity with the people of Pushal
Mawlawi Abdur Razaq became a symbol of honesty and kindness. Every body in the Western part of Nooristan respected and obeyed him. His reputation as an Islamic scholar spread through out Nooristan, resulting in many students from neighboring areas wishing to study .under him.
Mawlawi Abdur Razaq lives a pious lifestyle in his native village . He displays great patience and humility when dealing with the never ending flood of daily problems and requests that the local people have. No matter what the problem may be, Mawlawi Abdur Razaq endeavors to make a per sonal effort to find a settlement which is amicable to all parties.
Mawlawi Abdur Razaq achieved significant fame for his assertive response to the threat posed by the Ahl-i-Hadeeth sect otherwise known. as Panjpeer or Wahabi followers who
came to Eastern Nooristan from Pakistan' seeking to convert people to their interpretation of Islam. Mawlawi Abdur Razaq initially negotiated with the Ahl-i-Hadeeth leaders and after failing to reach an acceptable agreement, took legal recourse through the courts in Kabul. The court verdict justified Mawlawi Abdur Razaq's desire of banning the Ahl-i-Hadeeth leaders from preaching their religious doctrine in Nooristan. Even though Mawlawi Abdur Razaq was not able to stop the spread of the Ahl-i-Hadeeth school of thought in other parts ofNooristan, he succeeded in stopping its spread in Western Nooristan.
In 1978, when the communist regime took power in Kabul, Mawlawi Abdur Razaq was one of the first Mullahs who declared Jehad against the regime.
Mawlawi Abdur Razaq personally participated in the first operation against the Nooristan district, in Laghman. He assumed the role of a military commander and led his people in a summer offensive in 1978, resulting in the capture the regime's district and the seizure of an impressive array of arms and ammunition.
During the first military encounters in the Panjshir, Mawlawi Abdur Razaq took his men to help Commander Masood and was warmly welcomed by the local people. Mawlawi Abdur Razaq lost nine men in the initial military encounters in the Pajshir.
The duration of the war has brought many trials upon Mawlawi Abdur Razaq, but none more potentially threatening than the "Col. Serwar Affair". Serwar was an ageist qf the Communist government who was a diplomat in the Afghan embassy in India. He pretended to be sympathic to the cause of the Mujahideen and as k consequence "defected” from his post at the embassy and sought political assy-
lum in Pakistan which was given. After a short period of time he returned and settled in his native village of Pushal in Nooristan. There, he propagated to the local people that the Mujahideen was ignoring them, but that he could help them by giving them an ample supply of arms, food and medicines through secret contacts of his in hierarchy of the Communist Army. Initially, Mawlawi Abdur Razaq was impressed by the credentials of Sowar and gave him his confidence which promoted Sowar in the eyes of the local people.
Sowar kept his promise of delivering supplies to the local people. However, they were flown in helicopters of the Communist government. It started to become evident to an increasing number of people, that Serwar's real intentions was to establish a Communist army stronghold in the territory of Nooristan. Ovo a period of two years Sowar continued supplying the local people, until Mawlawi Abdur Razaq awoke to his serious mistake of misjudging the character and intentions of Serwar. He promptly denounced Serwar, thereby destroying the agent's reputation. Serwar managed to escape to Kabul, but Mawlawi Abdur Razaq through the realization of his initial mistakes had nullified a potentially disastrous military situation where the Communist Army would have had a Stronghold in the Middle of Mujahideen controlled territory.
Mawlawi Abdur Razaq or as he is known by his people (Maulawi Sahib), was 72 years when he started the fighting against the communists. In the lat er stages when Mujahideen became stronger and Jehad spread all over Afghanistan, Mawlawi Abdur Razaq has stayed mostly in his own village. His primary role now is to provide security for Mujahideen convoys passing through areas controlled by his men.
Jami'at, Hezb Island to solve their : differences through negotiations
- Jami*at and Uexb Islam* (Hikmatyar) Mvt agreed to solve their differences by settings? a judicial committee and refrain &om propaganda
A document was »ped %
Arab scholars who acteda&intedfe^	by the late Dr. Afcdufiah Ezam* Dr.
com
lYofesso? Ki&faani said that die settlement wifi not have any effect on die Tate