flFOWRN NEUS Um..(ll, MO.6,    15/-*/  1987    PRGE  8
The regime announced they would pay 50,000 Afs. per family for the returnees from exile Some clever people returned through the normal routes, cashed 50,000 Afs. and came out through the mountainous routes
Like the regime it self all its promises are false and so are the results it gets.
                      AFGHANISTAN A BASE FOR SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
The occupation of Afghanistan is neither the first Soviet step towards the expansion of their empire nor ’will it be the last one. The Soviets have designs beyond the borders of Afghanistan, especially in the two Islamic countries of Iran and Paksitan.
According to informed sources of the Mujahideen, several parties opposing the Islamic Republic of Iran are based in Kabul and in the provinces bordering Iran The members' of these parties help the puppet regime and the regime in return, provides them with financial support, a base for their activities and free passage to the outside world.
So far we know the name of three of these parties. They are Todah, Fedayan-i -aksareyat ( a pro-Moscow Marxist party) and Paiwand These parties have disputes among themselves and work against each other. They complain about the conditions of life in Afghanistan and feel the-shadow of the Mujahideen everywhere.
It should be added that the puppet communist party in Afghanistan, had close connections vith the communists in Iran and India long before it seized power in Kabul and the Soviet Union provided them with contacts and helped their coordination.
If the communist regime in Afghanistan is consolidated, Soviet interference in the affairs of neighboring countries will intensify. The Soviets could provide assistance, training and planning to the communist elements in the countries neighboring Afghanistan through their puppets in Kabul. This way the Soviet puppets will spread the influence of communism in the area without the Soviets being directly involved. In case their agents fail in their missions the Soviets could intervene under the guise of "defending a friendly country against an imaginary imperialism aggression", the way they did in Afghanistan.
                              HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS CONDEMNED
In the middle of March, UN human Rights Commission on Afghanistan debated the last report prepared by Flex Ermacora. A resolution was passed in vhich the puppets were condemned for the violation of Human Rights in Afghanistan. 17 countries voted for the resolution and 8 against it. India and the Soviet Union were among those who voted against the resolution It seems that Rajiv is ready to take any hostile action against the Afghan people to please the Soviets.
                                 SOVIET GAINS FROM OUR FREEDOM
Some people argue that the Afghans should give something to the Soviets in return for their troops' withdrawal. The Soviet Union is a Super Power and without concessions it may not leave Afghanistan. Give and take are the logical parts of any deal.
To see whether this argument is valid or not, it is logical to look at the nature of the conflict. It will help us to know how far the Afghans can go without destroying their
cause.
Before the Soviet occupation, Afghanistan was an independent country, a member of the UN, the Islamic Conference and the NAM.The Soviets had recognized all these and had even signed several treaties with that country.
Afghanistan being a developing country had adopted a policy of good relationships