    A Biwo©Kiy> Bull®tin Of Jarai'at Islam! Af ii tl«nd»t«r> Post Box No. 264, Peshawar — Pak^tfn. Vol.H, No. 13                   „  X  / 7  /  LS>S6.
    wrnmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm iw mmmtmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmrnmmm
       There has boon a 55 ni.l.ittt!«»*« p»,ngu*m«* on T.V New# covering a demonstration by people demanding the release of a few monkiee from a zoo. This typo of event draws moie nlleiltlon than the news of the massacre of the people of Afghanistan at the hands of Soviets, For seven years a bloody war has been going onj half a million people have died and more than four million people have become refugees and 75% of a beautiful country has been destroyed, A super power army of about 200,000 is engaged in&W^r against a nation which is fighting for its survival , but very little is heard of it*
       Major news agencies and T.V companies do not have reporters to cover the war. On the other hand the election in Austria is headline news for months and even small comments by IsrnilA leaders and individuals are projected every day. Can we call such media coverage independent and fair as they claim to be. Surely something is effecting the flow ofthe news and preventing its publicity. Difficult terrain and circumstances and Soviet threats may be some factors, but we are afraid that the name of Jehad and Islam may have been the cause of such indifference and unfair reporting.
       While we are proud of our religion and our struggle for freedom, toe do not see why it should prevent the news from being covered by the mass media. Under these circumstances we can not accept the claims of the Western media that they are reporting the facts and paying attention according to the importance of the issues. The future of a nation is much more important than the future of a few monkies but the media thinks the other way round.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                i