RFQHRN HEWS DDL.Ill, HO.10,         15/5/190?, PRCJE 9
 who has done something good It is like giving an honorary degree of law to a graduate of high school who has difficulties in reading and writing (India gave such a degree to the late president Daud)
 Both the Soviet and the Syrian regimes will gain some benefits from such a ceremonial space mission. The Asad regime which has problems at home and has been isolated abroad, needs something to deceive the Syrian people
 Asad will certainly use the event for domestic consumption In the third world countries these types of ceremonial events are usually exploited to add to the shattered prestige of the dictators in power.
 The Soviets want to encourage Syria's anti-Islamic policies at home and pro-Soviet policies in the international arena
                                           APRIL COUP CONDEMNED
 On the occasion of the ninth anniversary of the communist take over in Afghanistan (April 27.1978 pro-Russian coup detat), the cultural committee of Jamiat Islami Afghanistan held a huge meeting in Eidgah Mosque, Peshawar. Several thousands Mujahideen and Muhajireen(Re'fugees) took part in the meeting which lasted from 8 30 Am, to 2 00 Pm.
 In the meetings number of speakers talked about Russian plots in Afghanistan in the past and their recent plot, that is, the rumor of Zahir Shah's coming back to power.
 The speakers condemned the communist coup and the Russian invasion as well as Zahir Shah and his corrupt and oppressive regime whom they blamed for the success of Russian plots in Afghanistan A number of revolutionary poems were recited and revolutionary songs were sung as well.
 At the end of meeting. Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani , the leader of Jami'at Islami Afghanistan, gave a speech, the main points of which are the following:
    1- The Russians brought up the issue of Zahir Shah s coming back to power after the Mujahideen organizations manifested their unity and decisiveness by issuing the January 17, 1987 proclamation. Russians' aim was. to bring about disunity and confusion in the ranks of the Mujahideen.
    2- Today in Afghanistan there are only two groups:
        a-Those who fight in the battle-fields of Jehad and their supporters, b-Russian agents who oppose the first group directly or indirectly. Thus, there is no third person" or "third party" to be able to form a " neutral" government
        in Afghanistan.
    3- The only way for the solution of the Afghanistan problem is the establishment of
    an Islamic government by the Mujahideen
    4- Russian propaganda to the effect that they want to leave Afghanistan is also nonsense. Vhiie engaged in the propaganda, the Russians are bringing new troops and are constructing a bigger airport near Jalalabad.
    5- jami at Islami Afghanistan strongly supports the proclamation by the Islamic Unity of Afghanistan Mujahideen dated January 17, 1987 and wants the implementation of its provisions