Vol 6, No 5	March	1,1990
WMmmy//,
A five member delegation of the AIG headed by Sayed Ahmad Gailani left for Tehran on February 20 to discuss the election plan with Iranian officials and the nine-party alliance based in Tehran. Prof. Rabbani was a member of the delegation.
The delegation met with Dr. Velayati, the foreign minister of Iran on February 25 and discussed with him election	plans to	be	held	in
Afghanistan.
Velayati said: " Any plan concerning Afghanistan should observe the rights of all our oppressed Afghan brothers.”
The delegation was supposed to meet with the leaders of the eight-party Alliance to persuade them to participate in the AIG-pIanned elections.
The Iran-based parties did not participate in the AIG because of a disagreement on the number of seats allocated to them in the Consultative Shoora which elected the AIG.
Concerning the proposed elections by the AIG, the Iran-based parties have raised some questions about the number of constituencies and participation of women. One of their leaders, Khalili have asked for the dissolution of the AIG before they could participate in the elections.
The AIG plan has accepted the old electoral constituencies as a base for elections. The Shia parties think that this division (originally made during the king’s rule ) is not a just division.. They think it discriminates against the central pahs of Afghanistan.
Shia parties claim to represent a quarter of the whole population of Afghanistan while others estimate Shias to form 7 to 15% of the population.
Meantime, General Mirza Aslam Big, the Chief of the Army Staff of Pakistan visited Iran and discussed the Afghan situation with the Iranian leaders.
40 killed, 500 injured in clashes with army
in
Forty people were killed and more than 500 were wounded in clashes between the Soviet security forces and Tajiks in Doshanbe, the capital of Tajikistan in Central Asia on February 12 and 13.
The rumors that Armenian refugees were being resettled in Tajikistan triggered the three day riot but it turned into a platform for demanding political and economic reforms for Tajiks.
Gorbachev called the situation in Tajikistan ’dangerous' and stressed the need for strong measures to deal with the situation..
Tanks were send to Doshanbe to bring the situation under control. Demonstrators shouted Down with Russians'. They also demanded the withdrawal of other ethnic groups from Tajikistan.
Russian ethnic groups form 5% of the population. They are worried about their security. According to reports by the Soviet media, the demonstrators were demanding the resignation of communist officials and wanted the power to be transferred to clergymen.
It was also reported that the demonstrators attempted to take control of
Doshanbe airport but did not succeed.
Tajikistan has a population of five million who are Muslims and speak Persian.
Armenians living in Central Asia form a small, but rich minority who are resented by the local population.
Central Asian republics have a population of 35 million and most of its people are Muslims and have Turkic or Tajik ethnic roots.
The Soviet Ambassador to Kabul accused the Mujahideen of sending arms and money to the Tajiks. Prof. Rabbani, Jami’at's leader, has rejected any involvement of the Mujahideen in the disturbances in Central Asia and has called it a natural outcome of 70 years of Moscow’s oppression.
Commander Masood has sympathized with the uprising of the Muslims in the Soviet Union to gain religious, economic and social freedoms.
The Afghan war has had an indirect effect on developments in Soviet Central Asia.
The people in these areas were impressed by the resistance of the jAfghans_againsnhej5^^
Soviet diplomat warns Mujahideen against attacks on Kabul airport
The Soviet Ambassador to Kabul has warned the Mujahideen of severe reactions by his country if Soviet citizens are harmed in Afghanistan.
In a press Conference held in Kabul on February 25, he accused the Mujahideen of trying to disturb air traffic between Kabul and the rest of the world. He said the Mujahideen fired a Stinger missile at a landing Soviet transport plane on February 2. " They fire rockets into the airport when Soviet planes bring supplies to Kabul," he said.
The Soviet Ambassador, Boris Pastakhov, did not state clearly what
form the Soviet reaction would take if any "Soviet citizen" was harmed.
Kabul airport is one of the targets of the Mujahideen attacks. Soviet planes bring supplies of a military nature to Kabul to keep Najibullah's regime in power.
The Mujahideen say that their war with the Soviet Union still continues in a different form. While it is natural for Afghan Mujahideen to attack enemy transportation lines, it is not clear why the Soviets in Afghanistan expected better treatment from the Mujahideen?