AFGHANews Vol6, No 13, July 1,1990, page @
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Fazl Haq
Fazl Haq, Jami'at Islami commander in Charkh District, played an important role in the liberation of Charkh in 1979.
His Mujahideen killed 17 Soviet soldiers and destroyed two tanks, when the Soviet troops launched a surprised attack on his native village, Bandoka, In 1987.
He killed 16 enemy soldiers, who set an ambush against the Mujahideen in Shaikh Umar area in 1988. The enemy attempted to ambush a Mujahideen supply convoy passing through Charkh. When Fazl Haq learned of the enemy's intention, he attacked them to avert a tragedy.
Fazl Haq was bom 38 years ago in
Bandoka village, Charkh District His father, Fazl Ahmad, a Tajik, was a religious scholar.
He completed his primary and high school education in Charkh. Fazl Haq was a student of the Faculty of Economics of the Kabul University when the communist coup of 1978 took place. He promptly left the university without completing his studies and joined the Mujahideen. He joined Jami'at through Dr. Fazlullah, the leading Jami'at commander in Logar.
Cmdr. Fazl Haq has been privileged to perform Hajj, the Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca. He is married and has four children.
Commander Nabi
Mohammad Nabi, known as Amir Nabi, is the Jami'at commander in Mohammad Agha District, leading about 50 Mujahideen.
Cmdr. Nabi has taken part in many operations against both the Kabul regime and Soviet forces.
Nabi’s Mujahideen played an active role in an attack on Pul-i-Alam, inflicting heavy casualties on the enemy in 1988.
His Mujahideen attacked the enemy garrison at Mohammad Agha, setting afire a logistical depot and a clinic, and killing or wounding several soldiers in 1986.
Cmdr. Nabi killed several Soviet soldiers, capturing one when the Soviets launched an attack against the Mujahideen in Deh Naw, in 1985. The captured soldier was later exchanged for a Mujahideen commander imprisoned by the Soviets.
French Embassy in Kabul re-opened
The French embassy in Kabul reopened on June 17. The decision to re-open the embassy was taken some months ago by French President Mitterrand, but the coup by General Tanai postponed, the opening.
The French embassy was closed in February, 1989, as the Soviets were preparing to complete the withdrawal of their troops. At that time the Western countries, worried about the deteriorating situation, removed their diplomats for security reasons.
France's decision has pleased the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime, since it is a public relations coupe d’etat.. A communique from the regime foreign ministry described the
re-opening of the French Embassy in glowing terms as a "realistic approach to the Afghan situation”.
The Kabul Regime hopes that such a move will persuade other European countries to re-open their diplomatic missions. Italy might be the first country to follow suit.
French authorities have played down the importance of their decision. They say re-opening of the embassy does not imply recognition of the Kabul regime, with only the consular section of the embassy functioning. Furthermore, they insist their presence in Kabul is a first-hand source of information.
He was bom 30 years ago in a Tajik family in the center of Mohammad Agha district.
His father, Haji Ahmad Shah, woiked as a storekeeper of the Coal Authority of the Ministry of Mining and Industry in Pul-i-Khumri, Baghlan province.
Nabi attended primary and high schools in Zarghoon Shahr. When He was a high school student the communist coup took place. He sympathized with the Mujahideen and, in danger of being arrested by the regime, he left school to join them.
He and his father came to Peshawar, and Jami'at armed them to fight against the communists.
He is married and has three children. His family live as refugees in Pakistan.
Waii Rhan,the leader of National Democratic Party of Pakistan, has regaled that Bng. iJSkhiatyar had agreed to meet with
regime- Hikmatyar had met: with
coup.
...Wait Khan m bbc
Hikmatyar’s cooperation with Tanai prevented the meeting between Bezb leader and N^bubah,

Peter Tomsen, US envoy to the Afghan resistance told voice - of America that the United States con sidered the fprm^t king, Mohammad Zabir Shah, to be part of the Afghan
i Western News agencies reported that a truck exploded on June I0r hear ; the ministry of' Dc&adtce itl Kabul '
The wreckage of the truck was aflame, and buildings were damaged lf)0 meters a^yvlRegii^ swrees fuse to ^scmss tb^ ca^titie^ inthe incident and the cause of explosion.
Regime foreign minister, Abdul Wakil, told reporters In India that very soon the Mujahideen die Kabul regime will meet to discuss Afghan problem. He said secret talks between the two sides were in
=.:I:?A"?'"
A regime pilot was exchanged for two Arabs in Kandahar* June 8.
The pilot was captured two months ago in Dand district* QapK
U is not known who organized the prisoners exchange. No informal don w
the Arabs released.	■
mm
German pilot jtiega8y entered] Afghanistan and landed in Herat, se-| girae radio reported-	I
The source did not give farthen
[landing of a light plane flown by I Mathias Rust in Moscow Red Square!