AFGHAN mm
3.r.asiaa&.
VOL. II, Mo. 7 •             1-4-X986
'WWWWW.WWIIIW'WWWWWlWMIWMUtwmmWWllWMWIWlfc,
                                                   £L§-SL§
                      S2YIU2I
F-3iUi
 Mujahideen from Jamiat attacked the puppet regime post of HesArak district. Fighting continued from 4 pm to 12 pm, A building which wasIhs enemy post was destroyed and some Communists were killed or wounded.One Kujahid was martyred and three others wounded.
22-3-J3§
Mujahideen on their way to the Sharaali were attacked by the Soviets heliborne troops in Kolali area of Hesarak District. At dawn the planes bombed the area and 15 helicopters landed troops. A total number of 24 Kujahids were martyred. Twelve Soviet soldiers were also killed during the operation. These type of attacks are part of Soviet strategy of closing the supply routes of Mujahideen.
                           KABUL FROVINCB 26-2-36                     —------—-r——
Mujahideen of Janiat attacked the enemy post of Dargal, destroyed two tanks and the pos,t itself. Ho casualty figures for the enemy is given in the report, Mujahideen returned safely to their bases. Mujahideen also attacked Saroobi district headquarters and inflicted losses on the enemy. Two electric pylons were also destroyed by Mujahideen.
     It should be noted that Saroobi is located on the highway between Kabul and Jalalabad. In this area there are three hydroelectric power plants which provide electricity to Kabul city, Jamiat Commander in the area, Mohammad Anwar, has good relationship with all the parties in the district.
29-2-86
Tooran Ghulam Rasool a leading figure of government militia forces has been assassinated by Mujahideen from Jamiat in the city of Herat. Ghulam was an active and effective militia commander who has been helping Kabul puppet government for about two years. The report adds that Rasool’s murder will demoralise other militia commanders and will have a positive impact on Mujahideen.
Ghulam Rasoul was fighting against the Taraki regime. When Soviets .                                       of
invaaed he joined them and formed a lot,*posts in and around the city.
the number of his militia men reaches more than 2000. He was a ruthless person who led many offensives against Mujahideen, After his assassination Mujahideen captured 19 militia posts and a large amount of arms and ammunition,
1-3-86  .
Mujahideen of Jamiat attacked a. militia post in Taya village near the city of Herat. The militia leader named Yunous, was killed with 12 others and 50 militiamen with more than 50 guns were captured. Two liuja-hids were martyred and another was injured.