AFGHANews Yol 8, No 6, March 15,1992, page ©
Situation in Kabul
Following is an interview with Johan Jennings, an American journalist who went to Kabul as an AP reporter at the beginning of the year. He has worked for many years in Peshawar reporting the war in Afghanistan and has traveled with Mujahideen to many parts cfthe country. •••
Q. What struck you the most in Kabul after working for so many years in Peshawar and travelling with the Mujahideen inside Afghanistan?
A. What struck me the most was the absence any overt anti-American and anti-Western feeling in Kabul. This is not a problem while travelling with the Mujahideen inside Afghanistan, but there are certain groups which shoot off their mouths quite a bit in Peshawar; there are a lot anti-Western sentiments voiced in Peshawar. I find this supremely ironic, that there is more of this in Peshawar than in Kabul. I think that some of it (in Peshawar) is justified but die irony is still there.
Q. What was the main message that Najib wanted to pass to the world?
A. I think Najib's central message was that he has a role to play, perhaps a dominating role, in the future of Afghanistan. 1 think he want stay around as long as he possibly can in a position of power. He dismisses his past by pointing out that George Bush was in fact the head of CIA, so it is not a problem that he was die head of KHAD. In general he and his supporters argue that what happened in terms pf violation of human rights was part of the war and that the same thing was going on both sides. Though they also dismiss it, they see their association with the Soviet Union as a problem. Najib is trying very hard to distance himself from his association with the Soviets. He declared February 15th, the third anniversary of the Soviet troops withdrawal. National Salvation Day. It seems clear to me, from talking to dissidents within the Watan Party as well as ordinary people, that there is a lot of skepticism about this. Nobody, even the party people, have forgotten that Najib came to power with Soviet approval. I think the point that Najib would make is that it doesn't matter, the Soviets have gone now.
Q. How was the feeling of the regime people towards Mujahideen parties; field commanders and Zahir Shah?
A. In general you could say that most people in Kabul when they talk about the Mujahideen, from the highest to the lowest, they paint things in simple primary colors. They have a very simplistic conception. A lot people who are party members paint that sort of simplistic picture because it suits them, and most of the people who are not politically minded assume that is the way it is. In general people have a bad impression of the Mujahideen leaders who currently are refusing to go along with the UN peace process. Hikmatyar is feared by great many Kabulis, ordinary people and women. This has more to do with die incessant regime
propaganda than with anything Hikmatyar has done or not done, or anything he stands for or does not stand for. He is being used as a propaganda bogeyman. And as a result, when you talk about "extremists" he is the first person that most Kabulis think of. It does not have much reference with any of the things he actually has done, except perhaps the Tanai coup, which gave such propaganda a great deal of credibility.
There is understanding among Kabulis that field commanders have power and can influence the course of events. But among ordinary people there is not much appreciation for the finer points of the resistance politics. One thing that is very noticeable, from top to bottom, is that people have a very favorable outlook towards Ahmad Shah Masood. What ordinary people say is that he does not kill his enemies, he is a merciful man. If you point out that his ideology is probably every bit as extreme as some other Mujahideen leaders whom everybody calls extremists, people say he is still a merciful man, a reasonable man. It is safe to say that most. Kabulis regard Massood as belonging to an entirely separate category.
People in Kabul have a very favorable outlook towards Zajpr Shah. Watan Party people would be perfectly happy to see Zahir Shah come back. They are quite conscious of the fact that he is nothing more than a figurehead and that has personally no power, no following, no machine to back him up. Perhaps this one of the reasons that they would be so happy to see him come back: because if he did come back, he would wind up relying on the Watan Party to protect him.
Q. Were the regime officials willing to discuss the subjects of interest to you or they were sticking the official policy line?
A. I found them to be frank most of the time but they usually were unwilling to be quoted. Because of this, I was always careful about how I cited sources. Sometimes all you can say is "an Afghan government official" or "a high Watan Party official.” The only person who always speaks on the record is Najibullah, others most often ask you not to quote than by name.
Q. The Kabul regime claims that it has introduced , a multi-party system in the country. Did you meet the people from other parties? Did you feel their presence?
A. The Prime Minister, with whose office I had contact, is clearly involved in a lot of day-to-day things like providing fuel and food, and similar problems. In terms of making the decisions which could affect the country's future, I don't have any doubt that all the power still lies with the Watan Party. All the decisions which really influence the course of events are still made within the party.
There were some people in the "moderate" wing of the Watan Party who seemed to feel that they were being left out. that
they were not really being consulted.
I talked to other observers who felt that Najibullah was distancing himself completely from the party. One of the theories behind this was that Najib knows the Watan Party is an artificial creation, like some parties on the other side, and it can't play an important role in the long-term future of the country. Some people felt that Najib was distancing himself from the party, distancing himself from problems in his past and relying heavily on his real constituency, the security forces - KHAD, the army and police.
I met with Koshani, the head of SAZA. These people want you to believe that there is a degree of pluralism simply by their presence. Given the way things were shortly after the Saur revolution, there is a change. Do these people have any real influence? I am not convinced that they do.
Q. Did you observe any differences within the Watan Party and government on ethnic grounds?
A, Yes, there are differences and problems. Some people within the Watan Party say that if these problems are not addressed now, they could, in time, bring about the collapse of the current order. But those who admit that there is problem and those who say there is no problem both have axes to grind. I think the people who say there are problems are being honest, but in some cases they may be saying that because it suits their position too.
The clearest evidence that we had of the problem was the incident regarding Kishtmand. One afternoon he gave the BBC an interview in which he called upon the government to give genuine represents don to the minorities. The next day, he was shot in face when he was leaving a mosque A while after this, there was a march. It must have been one of the few processions taken out in KabulJt was planned and held about one week after the incident. They had permission from the commander of the Kabul garrison, but it wasn't completely stage-managed. Most of thelOO or so people who took part in the march were young. Among the older participants was a prominent Hazara merchant who also addressed the meeting.
Q. The Kabul regime supports tire UN peace plan. Does the regime really think that the UN plan provides a solution to the problem?
A. To all appearances there is genuine belief that the UN plan is worth a try. Nobody seems to have any other ideas. Of course, it is possible that Najibullah is supporting it only because he is confident that tire Mujahideen will never be able to unite on iL Anybody who is the least bit skeptical must consider that possibility.
Q. Whp" is tiie main problem that a journalist faces while working in Kabul?
A. The main problem journalists face in Kabul is that sources of information are