AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page ©
Masood predicts fall of Kabul to
Cmdr. Ahmad Shah Masood has said the situation in Afghanistan was rapidly changing in favor of the Mujahideen and time was approaching for a decisive action against the puppet regime in Kabul.
Talking to the reporter of Mujahid (a weekly paper published by Jami'at) from his base in Panjshir, he said the decisive victories of Jami'at Mujahideen in the north and Herat have helped the quick disintegration of the Kabul regime.
In reply to the question that what countermeasures was Najib taking to oppose the Mujahideen, Masood said Najib wanted to create division among the Mujahideen. He has approached some resistance parties and promised to transfer power to them. It was a-trick to create problems among different Mujahideen groups, the commander said.
About the situation in Mazar, he said the liberation of Mazar was initiated by Jami'at Militias forces had developed differences with other armed forces of the regime. Najib wanted to end the crises by giving concession to militia forces. Exploiting the situation, Jami'at Mujahideen captured regime bases one after the other. An interim committee has been formed to provide security and other services to the people of Mazar.
Masood said the orderly transfer of power in Mazar has had greater effect on the regime than its liberation. The residents of Kabul get information about the situation in Mazar from their relatives in Mazar by telephone. Peace
in Mazar has prepared the people of Kabul to welcome the entry of the victorious Mujahideen to the capital.
The UN has accelerated its peace plan to form a neutral administration in Kabul and the Mujahideen are also trying to capture Kabul. .When Masood was asked which of these efforts would reach the target first, he replied:	"Kabul
will welcome the Mujahideen, God willing."
Foreign journalist visiting the northern city of Mazar reported the city to be calm. A joint administration of the Militias and Mujahideen ruled the city.	,	'
The UN officers who escaped to Kabul when Mazar fell to Mujahideen have returned to the city. A UN officer said he was getting full cooperation from the new rulers of Mazar and was sending 100 trucks of food td Kabul each day. The UN official described the situation better than before the takeover.
School children carrying green flags were seen waiting along the highway to welcome Commander Alam Khan of Jami'at coming from Hayratan to Mazar: ,
Abdul Karim Bahar, the governor of Kabul and a member of Farcham faction, has admitted that developments in the north is seen as a positive thing by many officers of the regime army.
About the effect erf the fall of Mazar on the ordinary people, Bahar said: "At the start, the people were scared but later their fear disappeared because the city remained calm." ..
n
i i
Afghan Mujahideen sources have alleged that the United Nations j Special Envoy Benon Sevan was putting diplomatic pressure on certain | Arab countries to stop reaching of private funds to the Mujahideen parties.
The Al-Bunyan News Service reported that Sevan wanted an end to the Arab funding for Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar), Ittehad Islami (Prof. Sayyaf) and Jami'at Islami before the end of April.
It claimed that the UN envoy, during his recent trip to the Middle East, asked these countries to put an end to private donations to the three parties in order to facilitate the formation of a United Nations-sponsored interim government to replace the Kabul regime.
The three Mujahideen parties have offices in almost all Gulf states that collect private donations.
Jami'at supports UN peace plan conditionally
Jami'at Islami leader Prof. Rabbani has set the following conditions for his support to the UN peace plan:
•	Members of the pre-interim administration council should be selected by the Mujahideen.
«, The pre-interim administration should not enjoy political and diplomatic powers.
•	The pre-interim administration should complete its task within two months.
•	The regime 1 secret police (KHAD), special guard and police of the regime should be dissolved and the army should purged from its communist commanders.
•	The Mujahideen forces should be in control of strategic locations of Kabul.
Jami'at had not provided the list of its candidates for membership of the council to the UN directly or indirectly.
Mir Alam
From page (5)
the Supervisory Council of Jami'at headed by Ahmad Shah. Masood in 1989. He is one of the key Mujahideen commanders who implement the strategy of the council in Kunduz.
Mir Alam was bom 39 years ago in Childokhtaran lane of the city of Kunduz. His father, Haji Ghulam Qadir, was a relatively wealthy man in volved in farming and trade. He was also a local dignitary. Mir Alam learned the basics of Islam in the mosque school of his village. At the age of seven, he went to Shir Khan High School. He left school when he was a studentof the 11th class and began to work as an auto mechanic. His native language is Persian. He is married and has one child.
Help us publish AFGHANews!
Please send your donations to the following account number:
JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan