AFGHANews Vol 8, No 12, June 15,1992, page ©
Who is who in	the Mujahideen
Commander Gul Haider
Gul Haider is a battalion commander of the Islamic Army of the Supervisory Council. Despite losing one of his legs in a mine explosion, he has remained active in Jehad.
He led five hundred Mujahideen in the operation which resulted in the liberation of Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan, in April. The forces under his command are responsible for the security of an area west of the capital.
Gul Haider is one of those commanders whose reputation has reached beyond the borders of Afghanistan. Many foreign journalists, have praised him for his courage iri articles and books abouL Jehad in the Panjshcr valley.
In addition to fighting the enemy outside the valley, Gulhaidcr fought Soviet and the communist regime troops during the nine offensives, launched against Panjshcr.
His first encounter with Soviet troops look place in the Parandch side-valley of Panjsher in March of 1980. Despite their lack of proper weapons, the Mujahideen killed several Soviet soldiers and seized some arms and ammunition. ■	\	-	r	r
During the second offensive in the summer of the same year, Gul Haider and other Mujahideen destroyed 16 tanks and trucks in Rukha. Commander Abdul Wasay, Gul Haider's cousin, led the operations.
During the third offensive at the end of the same year, he and other Mujahideen under command of Mohammad Panah killed or captured more than 50 regime soldiers.
He also fought the enemy when they launched their fourth offensive in the Summer of 1981.
During the fifth offensive in the Spring of 1982, Gul Haider and a few of his friends annihilated a commando unit of die Red Army which had landed by helicopters in Rukha. Three helicopters were shot down and many light and heavy weapons were captured. This operation raised the morale of the Mujahideen in other parts of Panjshir.
Gul Haider lost one leg in a mine explosion in Panjshir in 1983. He went to Peshawar for medical treatment, iami’al helped to fix an artificial leg for him in London. During his stay in London, he passed the message of the Mujahideen to Afghans living there. After a few month, he returned to Afghanistan to resume Jehad.
When the civilian population and
most of the Mujahideen were evacuated from the valley in preparation for the seventh offensive in the Spring of 1984, Gul Haider was advised to go to Shomali. But after the initial phase of , the offensive, he returned.
Snow blocked transportation routes, making it difficult to bring supplies to more than 200 Mujahideen in a side-valley about one mile from a Soviet garrison in Rukha.
At this critical lime, the Mujahideen felt the need for having a' commander who could lead them tin an extremely difficult situation. They asked Gul Haider to become their commander. He accepted the offer reluctantly but has remained in this post since then. At the start of 1988, he went to London to repair his artificial leg and returned to the valley the day when Soviet troops pulled out of Panjshir.
Peter Jouvcnal, a British journalist, helped Gul Haider to undergo treatment in London. He had become ah admirer of Gul Haider after he saw his fearless fighting against the Soviets at the start of. Jehad.
From 1988 to 1992, Gul Haider remained in the valley and served as the commander of Chimalwarda district (Qarargah).
When Commander Masood mobilized die Mujahideen of Panjshir and organized them into battalions to lake
part in the liberation of Kabul, Gul “Haider was chosen the commander of one of the battalions. On the way to Charikar he was accompanied by two other Mujahideen with artificial limbs.
Gul Haider is a famous local figure. He has earned his reputation for his selfless Jehad. Commander Jailani of Jabiilseraj once said that presence of Gul Haider in a group of Mujahideen gave life and energy to the group. Local children praised Gul Haider in their songs as a folk hero, something that he deserves.
Although he is not educated, he takes keen interest in educlioh for the people. He organized the rebuilding of one of the two major mosques in Rukha where students learn Islamic knowledge.
Gul Haider was bom 29 years ago in the village of Shast, Panjshir. His fa ther, Mir Haider, was a farmer.
Gul Haider studied the basics of Islam in the mosque school of his vil lage. He did not attend school due to financial problems and began to work in a bakery in Kabul.
He left his job and joined the Mujahideen when the people of Panjshir rose against the communist re gime under the: leadership .of Ahmad Shah Masood in 1979. He was given a gun after two months among the Mujahideen.
When the Mujahideen retreated to .the upper part of the valley due to shortages of arms and ammunition, Gul Haider accompanied them. Masood began to train his men to prepare them for the difficult days ahead. Gul Haider relumed to his village and lived there se crcLly before rejoining the Mujahideen in the spring of 1980.
Gul Haider got married in 1984 and has two children.
3	'	,	;Vv ' ft

llMredhia*:ffier^ was. nWimilli
§j$ept Abu
plants ;used‘Tbr
