RF0HW1 HEMS UOL.III, MO.17,      l/9/1907,P«E 6
In general, the war situation is satisfactory in Panjshir.
The enemy has taken position in six or seven garrisons. In military terraenology. such wars are called "wars of forti fications". To counter such a war and crash enemy's fortifications, two types of wars must be undertaken. 1>*to keep the enemy busy by a small number of forces in the area where it wants to use fortified war and move most of the forces to other areas which are much more important for the enemy than the first area. 2>- To launch a continous war of "wearing-down" which takes heavy toll f i opj the enemy in the area in which fortifications are established.
With the help of God. we undertook both types of the wars in Panjshir. First, our organizational work and our wars « outside Panjshir were accomplished with success and are progressing. Enemy's main aim of fortified war was to limit us to Panjshir and to keep us busy there. It failed in its plan, we were able to establish the second .third and fourth -bases. We were able to develop the war outside Panjshir and position ourselves in such points that are more important and strategic for the enemy. :
Second, war of "wearing down" has been going on in Panjshir to a greater or lesser degree all the time. The enemy has suffered heavy casualties as a result of this war . That is why it has had to re-strengthen its strongholds over and over.
In Panjshir we conduct several types of fighting. 1>- Firing by artillery and heavy weapons on enemy's garrisons to the extent that the enemy troops can not walk freely within their garrisons during the day 2)- Planting mines on the ways leading to the garrisons. 3>- Ambushing enemy troops and cutting their supply routes. The enemy has suffered heavy casualties by such operations. 4>- Firing on enemy planes by D.Sh.K and other- heavy machineguns. Every few days a helicopter Is shot down. 5)- For each of enemy's posts on mountain tops two or three persons are assigned. As soon as a soldier raises his head, he is killed by light weapon firing. 6>- Froin time to time. Mujahideen attack enemy’s military posts and capture some of them.
It should be added that so far we have not intended to capture the garrisons. 1f we wanted, we could have done so. But we have reasons to prefere the present form of war to continue.*
Q. But Russians have been able to create problems for the people of Panjshir by having their garrisons there. Do not you think your newly-established bases would have a similiar
fate?
A. The enemy is sorry for the type of war it started in Panjshir. It launched this war to eliminate us or at least to keep us busy. But it failed badly. Now it Is the prisoner of its
own making.
The enemy would have withdrawn its forces from Panjshir long time ago if it were not for fear of damage to its prestige and political .status. At the present, 3700 Russian troops and a domestic division called "Division No.2" are positioned in Panjshir. Just imagine! one district having so foany troops engaged in itself--and engaged in a way they can not accomplish anything useful. They are completely in a negative defensive position and suffer casualties every day. Thus,
I am sure the enemy will try its best never to commit the same mistake.