AE6HAMIWS
Will.________ii£M
PAGE 7
     Nov that the Mujahideen have an Alliance, now that the Geneva proximity talks have reached a so-called critical point, this is the best time for all those vho believe in freedom to give us the credit of being the sole representative of the Afghans. As true and just peace can not be brought about without our full participation. We have the support of all of our people and control most of our land. So ve ask "how can those countries in the U.N., who love freedom, continue to allow the puppet Kabul regime in the U.N.?”
     It is natural for us to desire and call for our friends, the freedom- , loving people throughout the world, to cut off diplomatic, political. and economic ties to the puppet regime and to recognize us as the legitimate representatives of the Afghan people.
     We Afghans, have struggled for more than six years to achieve peace and freedom by .trying to rid ourselves of the Soviet invader. True and just peace can only be obtained through the immediate, complete and unconditional withdrawal of the Soviet Union. We feel that a political solution or negotiated settlement is not possible without the full participation of the Afghan Alliance in the Geneva talks. Self-determination for the Afghans must be guaranteed: we will not accept the current puppet Kabul regime.
     What can he accomplished from these so-called "proximity talks"
     in Geneva?
     We do not believe that the Soviets have any intention of withdrawing. Ever since the war began they have "talked" about leaving. While they have ordered their puppets to negotiate the Communists have escalated the war inside Afghanistan as well as
     terrorism in Pakistan.
     In fact these current negotiations are a part of the Soviet political strategy and propaganda. It is designed to fool the world into believing that the Soviets are reasonable men who seek a
     reasonable way out of the war.
     The Soviets will only leave if they pay a higher material and political price. Only when many more of their men are killed, or when more Soviet Gunships are destroyed, when mothers complain about their sons who are killed or wounded, when the world cries out for justice in Afghanistan so loudly — will the Soviets consider withdrawing.
     But to accomplish this, we will need more military and nonmilitary support and international political pressure. The change in leadership of the Kabul regime is cosmetic and meaningless. It is the replacement of one puppet with another puppet. The call for elections, the grand assemblies done under KGB and Kbad supervision are a hoax. We ask the world opinion to be careful in the sight of this propaganda offensive.