Vol 5, No 18 & 19	October	1,	1989
US official meets with Zahir Shah
Soviets send huge convoy to Kandahar
* A huge supply convoy reached Kabul regime forces at Kandahar on September 15, after covering 700 kilometers in two weeks, Mujahideen sources reported.
The convoy consisted of 1000 trucks and oil tankers escorted by 200 tanks and 100 armored cars. The regime's air force also provided cover for the convoy, which brought ammunition and fuel to the besieged city of Kandahar.
The convoy entered Afghanistan from the Soviet Union at the Toorghundi border post. It is believed that the personnel accompanying the convoy are newly trained soldiers and officers who were given this job after completing their training in the Soviet Union.
The convoy was attacked along the road in Herat, Fatah and Kandahar, and several vehicles were destroyed. It veered across the desert near Kandahar to avoid ambushes set by the Mujahideen along the highway.
This is the first convoy which has reached Kandahar since the Soviet troop withdrawal. A Kabul regime spokesman claimed the convoy has brought enough fuel and ammunition for six months.
Afghan Interim Government press releases predicted that the Kabul regime might try to recapture Speenboldak, a town on the Pakistan border southeast of Kandahar. Previous efforts by the regime's militiamen to capture the town have not been successful.
Observers see such a huge convoy as a sign of Soviet commitment to supply the regime at any cost.
Some people expected the Mujahideen to stop and destroy the convoy along the way. Flat terrain, however, as well as the presence of the 200 T-62 tanks and 100 armored cars and the convoy's protection by aircraft, enabled it to reach Kandahar.
Talks between the ex-king and an American diplomat has given new hope to supporters of the deposed monarch that he might return to the political life of Afghanistan.
A senior American diplomat, Jon Holmes, met with Mohammad Zahir in Rome to discuss Afghan issues with him.
American officials have said that meetings with Zahir Shah do not indicate a change of policy towards the Afghan resistance.
They say also that it was not their first meeting with the ex-king. The Americans said that they asked the ex-king to render his support to the interim government but that his answer has not been positive.
Prof. Sayyaf, the Prime Minister of the Interim Government, has told reporters in Peshawar that the ex-king cannot play a role in the future politics of Afghanistan.
Because of the stalemate on the battlefield and the failure of the Interim Government to broaden its base, the Americans have started to look for other options.
Kabul and the Soviets have always shown interest in persuading Zahir Shah to support their "national reconciliation" efforts.
Soviet envoy to Kabul met with king in Rome last year and Najib has claimed that his envoys have met the ex-king several times. It is difficult to verify Najib's claim.
Hie ex-lring who has not been active in the resistance, is considered an opponent of the Soviet occupation and the communist regime. The issue of Zahir Shah will divide Afghans further and weaken the position of the Interim Government
Despite American statements that their policy towards Afghanistan has not changed the meeting with Zahir Shah and open criticism of the interim government by some American official could be a signs of some sorts of change.
American have made no such a commitment to the Afghan resistance to prevent them from supporting other options. They have not recognized the Interim Government
As in the past those who favor the return of the long to Afghan political scene are not clear about his role.
The ex-king seems interested in some kind of role but has not been active to pave the road for his return. It seems that he is waiting for the time when all Afghans and superpowers offer him a role.
No doubt Afghans want peace but introduction of a new element in the political scene may not offer a quick solution. Lack of an effective organization to support the king and his personality which try to avoid difficult decisions may disappoint those who see a solution in his return.
Lack of progress in the battlefield has made the Soviet and regime more hopeful about the future of the communist regime and less compromising. Previous assumption by some circles that Gorbachev will sacrifice his communists Mend in Afghanistan for the sake of good relations with the US and West proved to be wrong. Soviet commitment in support of the regime has surprised the Americans. In the light of these developments there is no place for great hope that Zahir Shah option even if accepted by resistance (or imposed on it) be acceptable to the Soviets and the regime.
Rocket hits UN plane
A UN plane was damaged when Mujahideen fired rockets into the Kabul airport oh September 14.
UN Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar voiced concern over the incident, but said that he did not believe that the UN plane was a target of the Mujahideen attack. Benon Sevan, the General Secretary's special representative, was on the plane but was not hurt