AFGHANews Vol 5, No 21, November 1,1989, page @
Obituar
Supervisory Council mourns Enayatullah's martyrdom
Enayatullah was bom 38 years ago in the village of Bayan-i- Sufla, near Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan.
His father, Haji Abdul Khgliq, was a fanner with his own land and vineyard. The family's economic situation was good. Haji Abdul Khaliq had enough money to visit the holy city of Mecca in order to perform Haj (Islamic pilgrimage).
EnayatuUah went to primary school, and later to Noman High School in Charikar.
Young EnayatuUah also performed haj at die age of 18, and earned the title of Haji
Haji EnayatuUah became a teacher and remained in die post for one year. He had come in contact with the activists of the Islamic Movement in high school, and he became involved in the anti-communist campaign. The communist coup of 1978 changed his life; he began aimed struggle.
Being close to the city of Charikar, he began minor, armed urban activities against the communist elements before launching open attacks against the enemy establishment
are against sending UN assistance through the Soviet Union, and distributing it through the Kabul regime. These arrangements would have hurt the Mujahideen politically and prolong the rule of Soviet puppets in Afghanistan: Any relief work distributed through die regime will be misused for political reasons and will be given only to pro-regime people. It is beyond the ability of the UN to control this situation.
The Najibullah regime has begun spreading propaganda about Salaam Express and has accused the Mujahideen of creating problems for distribution of the aid. This propaganda could se the stage for another tragedy, in the name of opening the road for UN relief goods. Last January, Soviet bombardment killed more than 400 people in the Salang valley on the pretext of opening the road for food convoys to the poor people of Kabul.
The danger that UN relief goods will be abused to create a working relationship between the Najib regime and
He started his work with a few guns, and in 1983 captured the security posts of the Parwan Irrigation Project. He seized enough guns there to increase the number of his fighting men. In 1984, he was appointed Jami'at commander of the flat areas of Parwan by the Supervisory Council.
He took active part in the operation against Kuran-o-Munjan garrison in 1987, which resulted in the liberation of die area. He was wounded several times during his career.
In the most recent round of the Council's operation against the Salang highway, he inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. On September 23 he was killed when a mortar shell exploded close to him.
Commander EnayatuUah was his father's second son to die fighting die communists. Aminullah, his younger brother, was killed in 1979 in Peshawar when a bomb planted by die enemy destroyed the Jami'at office and killed 13 officers.
In a letter to Prof. Rabbani, Commander Masood has called his death a loss which can not be repaired easily.
some Mujahideen fronts cannot be ruled ouL The Mujahideen will oppose any such move, and it would be a great mistake for the UN bodies to involve themselves in such conspiracies.
Supply shipments through the Soviet Union and distribution of relief goods by the Kabul regime should stop immediately. In the future every move concerning Afghans should made with consultation with the Afghan Interim Government The Mujahideen cannot tolerate any move which is biased toward the iUegal puppet regime of Najibullah.
AIG trains policemen
A training program for policemen, organized by the Interior Ministry of the AIG, started in Peshawar on October 23, MIDIA reported.
Two hundred policemen are being trained in the center. The training center was opened by Commander Abdul Haq, who is the chief of the AIG police department
Jehad Diary
From page (6)
Mujahideen posts in different parts of the city was disrupting law and order.
He consulted with Jami'at Khalis and Harakat commanders about how the city could be reorganized. All the commanders authorized the Supervisory Council to do die job.
My time was short and I wanted to go to Banjshir to meet my family and Maids. My final activity was a private conversation with Masood in Worsaj. I found the commander confident of a Mujahideen victory.
Islamic Movement
From page (7)
be welcomed by those who wanted to see Muslims united and victorious.
1 wanted to meet with Prof. Sayyaf to prevent him from fanning a new party, the party which was called the Islamic Union for the Liberation of Afghanistan.
Until that time Prof. Sayyaf had said dial he was not forming a new party, but all the clues indicated such a thing was taking shape. I had heard things from Prof. Sayyaf which indicated the existence of a new party.
I contacted his brother, Sayed Gharib, who was a friend of mine, to arrange a meeting for me with Prof. Sayyaf. He said that Prof. Sayyaf would meet me soot.
After a few days I renewed my request, and was told to wait I waited for one and half months, but the meeting did not take place. Meanwhile Prof. Sayyaf achieved what he was longing for: the formation of his party. Although Prof. Sayyaf refused to call it a new party, the world knew that it was
Despite Prof. Sayyaf being my old friend, I always opposed his moves in the name of achieving unity. I knew that these moves did not bring unity. During this time he never consulted me. Developments showed that I was right.
I preferred the unity based on satisfaction of the parties even if it was a weak one. I was against a unity formed under external pressure even if it was a total unity.
I preferred the parties which were not ready for unity to be left to themselves and unity be formed among those who believed in it and were satisfied with its consequences. Once such unity was formed attempts should have been made to consolidate it
UN aid policy ...
From page( 4)