  AFGHAH NEWS VOL. II NO. 20                1S/10/1Q&6     PAGE Q
 A. By participation I meant sending groups.
 0. Again the victory over Ferkhar! was it as a result of an increase in the armaments of the Mujahideen or the joint operation?
 A. The joint operation was the only reason for the victory. There was no change in the quality and quantity of the Mujahdideen’s weapons.
 Q. have you ever given a chance to the common people to participate in the process of decision making?                                          c
 A. Ours is an Islamic revolution, national revolution and people’s revolution.
    I t is the people who participate in different fields. In the past people did not have any role to play in the process of decision making.They did not have any role in government affairs. They were silenced: Now the people have an effective-role to play.
 Q. What about the withdrawal of a limited number of Soviet forces from Afghanistan?
 A. It is obvious that there are about 15Q thousand troops . in Afghanistan.Witherawal of 6 to 7 thousand troops will have no effect on the war. Even if it takes place it does not have any military value.
 Q. What about the cultivation of opium?
 A. !t is the puppet government who has a direct hand in the cultivation and smuggling of opium. It is smuggled by the puppets’ network to the the foriegn countries. Soviet, puppets finance their militias through smuggling opium.
 Q. Do you allow' opium to be cultivated in the areas under your control?
 A. Not at all. We have forbidden cultivation of not only opium but also tobacco.
 Q. Is there any judicial system to try you if you do something wrong?
 A. We serve the people, not rule them.We have always given this right and power to the people to question us. We are accountable to them.
 Q. Do you have judges in the area you control?
 A. We have judges and they are elected by the religious scholars. They have the power to try even the commanders. One of my effective commanders had slapped someone. The case was taken to court and the commander was found guilty and fined.