AFGHAN HEUS VOL.III, HO.17,         1/9/I9B7,PR6E 8
It sounds unbelievable, but I did not see one tear in the eyes of the white-bearded father during several days he was with us. He returned to Soroobi after the funral and Fateha (condolence) ceremonies.
A week later I withnessed a more amazing act of the old man. Believe it or not, he sent his 15 years old son, saber, to Jegdalik to replace Nadir in Jihad. This happened less than two weeks after Nadir's Martyrdom.
When I saw this, I thought by myself: How would Russians hope to defeat such people whose youth (like Prophet David) are not afraid to face the giant enemy and whose elderly (like Prophet Abraham) are ready to sacrifice their sons on the way
of God?.                                                       «
P.S. Saber is still with commander Anwar's Mujahideen. After several years of Jihad, he is a very experienced and active Mujabid.
SOLIDARITY WITH THE AFGHANS
                     Follpwing is the text of a casesheet prepared by AMNESTY INTERNAT1ONAL
March 1987
 KALANDAR SADURDINOV
Kaiandar Sadurdinov, a Muslim from the Soviet republic of Tadzhikstan. is imprisoned for criticizing Soviet policy in Afghanistan. Since he neither used nor advocated violence in support of his views. Amnesty International believes his imprisonment violates his right to freedom of expression and is adopting him as a prisoner of conscience.
BADKGROtiND
In 1973 the USSR ratified the International Covenant on Civil and Poltical Rights, Article 19 of which proclaims freedom of expression as a fundamental human right. Nevertheless, Soviet citizens who criticize official policies or who possess or distribute material disapproved of by the authorities, still risk imprisonment under laws that restrict freedom of expression. These are the laws against "anti-Soviet agitation and propaganda" and against "circulating anti-Soviet slander", which exist in the criminal codes of all of the 15 republics of the USSR.
The information on Kaiandar Sadurdinov comes from a report in the official newspaper Kommuni st Tadzh'ikstana communist of Tadzhikstan dated 31 January 1987. It describes him as a foreman in a packaging combine in Kurgan-Tyube who worked as an unofficial mullah in his spare time. He was arrested in- : 1986 after leading a religious discussion group in which he