A Biweekly Bulletin Of J&mi'at Islami Afghanistan Post Box IHo. 2(5 Peshawar - Pakistan Vol. II. No.            .  - / ^ y *1   ' ;
4/ 1986-
                                                                    %
                                 SOVIET PRESSURE OH PAKISTAN
     Pakistan is the host of more than three million refugees. The. government and people of Pakistan openly oppose the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The Pakistani opposition to the Soviet invasion bes-ides humanitarian. and Islamic solidarity with the people of Afghan-istan has another important reason. The occupation of Afghanistan by an expansionist-super-power is posing a real security risk for Pakistan . This is why Pakistan would like to see the freedom of Afghanistan restored and the Soviet forces go home.
     Pakistan’s political, moral and humanitarian position on Afghanistan has made the Soviets angry. Sometimes they threat Pakistan verbally and other times send their planes to bomb innocent civilians and fire shells inside Pakistan territory. The purpose of this is to put pressure on the government of Pakistan to change their present position on Afghanistan and talk directly with the puppet regime.
     In the past few months, the Soviets have intensified their activities to disturb the peaceful life of the Pakistanis and incite them against Afghan refugees. They bomb innocent places to kill people to create discontent among the people. They do all this now that Icartial
           Law has been ended and there is room for them to spread their rumors.
                             elements
     Some hidden pro-Soviet try to fan the fire to incite Pakistan citizens against Afghan refugees. This is the actual aim of the Soviets- to create an atmosphere of mistrust between the two people. Some elements preach this type of propaganda to serve their own domestic politics.
     What I want to say in this respect is that Afghan refugees are the guest of the government, and the people of Fakistan. The security of Fakistan is as important to us as the security of our homeland. We will always remain guests, and are not interested in the domestic politics of the host country. Some people who accuse refugees of interfering in Pakistan internal, politics are mistaken.s We have, a bigger problem to think about and that is the liberation of Afghanistan.