AFGHANews Vol 6, No 8, April 15,1990, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Com. Masood Kunduzi
Masood, son of Haji Gul Murad, was bom in Sujan village of Chardara District, Kunduz Province, 29 years ago.
Masood went to Bybacha Primary School in his hometown at the age of seven, but later moved to Sher Khan High School in Kunduz. After completing ninth grade there, he entered Madrasa-i-Takharistan (a religious school run by government) in the same city and completed it with good grades.
In Takharistan, he came in contact with the members of the Islamic movement. Upon the communist coup of 1978, he decided to take part in anti-government activities along with other members of the movement
The need for arms forced him to come to Pakistan in 1979. Masood received three months of military training in a Jami'at training camp in Pakistan’s tribal areas. He started his journey back to Chardara with a few guns and some cakes of explosives to resist the communist regime.
On the way to Kunduz he passed through Panjshir where he met with Commander Masood, who impressed him. Upon returning to the area, he started to plant improvised mines on the roads used by the communist forces. The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan made him more determined to fight against the invaders. His mines destroyed several regime aiid Soviet tanks and trucks.
f He used to mine the Mazar-Kunduz road, which was extensively used by enemy military convoys bringing supplies from Hairatan Port to the Soviet base at Kunduz airport Whenever the Mujahideen attacked the enemy forces, the enemy
Prof. Sayyaf rejects drug allegations
The AIG has strongly rejected the allegations of the Kabul regime that the Mujahideen have been involved in drug dealing. •
Sometime ago the representative of the Kabul regime in the UN accused the Mujahideen of drug dealing.
Prof. Sayyaf, the prime minister of the AIG told MIDLA that the Mujahideen were opposed to the use, storage and production of narcotics. "Anything fatal and damaging to human dignity and honor shall be opposed by us," he said.
bombed the villages controlled by the resistance. In one such aerial bombing, Masood's house was hit and his uncle and cousin were killed.
Chardara, about 10 kilometers from Kunduz City, has been a target of several large-scale Soviet offensives. On April 1985, Russian troops surrounded Gortapa and Chardara. The Mujahideen resisted fiercely. In the two areas more than 230 people, mostly civilians, were martyred and more than 300 were wounded.
In February 1984, Chardara was the scene of a horrible massacre by the Soviet troops. A Soviet officer was captured by the Mujahideen. The Soviet troops launched an attack to rescue their officer and when failed, they massacred about 400 ordinary people of Chardara. Because of these attacks many people from Kunduz moved to safer areas controlled by the Mujahideen, or became refugees in Pakistan.
Masood has kept in close contact with Supervisory Council, headed by Ahmad Shah Masood. Some of his Mujahideen have been trained in the Council's training centers.
Masood is a commander of 350 Mujahideen who operate in Kunduz City. He has taken part in numerous operations, large and small, including the one which led to Kunduz* brief libera tion in summer of 1988.
Masood was one of the command ers who participated in the historic meeting of Jami'at commanders in Farkhar last summer. He was capture by Sayed Jamal's men along with other Jami'at commanders, but he was released with some other commanders from Kunduz. Those who were killec were from Takhar Province.
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
.......
He ran out from under a leaking roof and sat in the rain.
Meaning: Out of the frying pan into the fire.
0jyA tfJuiL ij wl a	(J	W	J * 1 J
Without investigating the water, don't take off your shoes (to walk through it).
Meaning: "Look before you leap.”
UM I Jmf UMm2uI
• ImIiIiW JU ^11
Five!fingers are brothers but are not equals.	K
Meaning: Although people may be related by family or nationality each person nevertheless is different
AJ& Ca	4J
•	J
Don't dig wells for others for you will fall into one yourself.
Meaning: Evil begets evil.