RFGHHH NEUS UGl.lU, HO. 5,, 1/3/1068, PRQE 6
                               • \ •
 On 5 February 1988, a number of eneay forces including militia vent to Dair village of Charkh sub-district, disguised as Mujahideen by wearing beards and possesing Chinese Klashinkcrve. They set an ambush against some groups of Mujahideen bound for the North passing through the area. Being in Mujahideen disguise, the forces stopped and checked two armed Mujahids who were passing by the ambush site. They were unaware of the eneay assuming they were Mujahideen groups having a check-post on the way. Later the two Mujahideen were disarmed and one was killed and the other seriously wounded bry the ambushing forces.
 There were also soae armoured vehicles and tanks in a hidden position behind the forces,to provide fire cover and launch surprise attacks on Mujahideen convoys. After two days, the news of the enemy ambush reached Mujahideen by an old woman of the area. Hearing this, Mujahideen groups attacked the enemy position. The eneay tanks started firing heavily on the Mujahideen which resulted in burning a passenger bus crossing the area which 22 civilians were killed leaving two survivors.
 Nine ailitia were killed during the attack.
 Three Mujahideen were killed and some houses were destroyed as a result of a subsequent retaliatory bombardment by enemy jets.
 According to the report, this was the third incident in which passenger buses were attacked and burned by the enemy.
                                           HERAT PROVINCE
 18/2/1988: In a series of attacks in Daulat Abad and Braman areas located in the vicinity of Herat city. Mujahideen captured 8 DRA posts. The arms seized from the posts were: 2 Gerinov Machine guns, one mortar, 30 AK-47S , ? Communication sets and a T-62 Russian tank in addition to tens of boxes of heavy and light weapons1 ammunition.
 In this operation 27 soldiers and militia were killed and 15 others taken prisoner.
 One Mujahid was killed and 6 others injured during the operation.
                                           KUNAR PROVINCE
 3/2/88: About 83 persons (including some from the tribal areas who had recently turned militia) from the area were taken prisoner by the Asmar Mujahideen during an ambush. More than 60 sets of Russian radios and 130 sleeping bags were seized from the captured people most of whom were DRA spies.
 Two militia were killed and 6 others wounded when they resisted the Mujahideen.
                                           KABUL PROVINCE
 2/2/1988: In  a well-planned  operation on  Hahipar  power supply
 station, 3 protective posts around the station and an armoured vehicle were destroyed in 3 hours of fighting in which Mujahideen used 82m» canon.