attended military training classes and has taken part in military operations since his appointment to the new job.
Azimi has earned a reputation for good treatment of the Mujahideen and the people. He is an honest man with a strong desire to support the common people. A friend describes him as a pious man who follows Islam Strictly. Despite his responsibilities, he finds time to study.
With the help of different commit-. tees of the SC he has opened schools (for both boys and girls) and clinics. His main job is to provide security for ordinary people to enable them to have a normal life after long years of suffering. He. is assisted in his difficult job by his young and capable deputy Besmillah.
Azimi was bom in Kasawa village of Kohistan District, Kapisa Province, in 1951. His father, Mohammad Musa, is a Tajik farmer.
giuunu teas lit rvauui iur military,
propaganda and intelligence operations.
Azimi took an active part in the 1980 uprising in Kabul against the Soviet occupation, which was crushed by using force resulting in hundreds of deaths. The students, especially girls, played a major role in the uprising, which led to the arrest and torture of hundreds by the regime security forces. Azimi escaped arrest
He migrated to Pakistan in 1981 and started to work as the deputy head of Jami'at's office for Kabul Province. After a short while in exile, Azimi returned to Afghanistan in 1983 to take active part in the resistance against the Soviet occupation. Until 1988 and his election to the deputy administrator post, he worked on the Council's political committee.
Azimi is married and has six children. His family lives inside Afghanistan.
Japanese journalist contradicts reports of decreased fighting in Kandahar
A Japanese woman reporter returning from Kandahar say $ she watched fighting around die city of Kandahar, which continued day and night, except during Eid.
Keiko. Tomihari, who traveled to Kandahar with Jami'at, visited Arghandab and a front near the Mahbas (or prison).
When she was visiting the front, two Mujahideen were killed, two Were maimed by a landmine explosion and several others were injured.	.
"The Mujahideen made use of heavy, and light weapons against the communists and the regime troops fired only when they were attacked," she isaid.
She said one side of the Mahbas of Kandahar is controlled by the Mujahideen and the other side Jby the regime troops. Landmines keep the two sides separated. When she was in Kandahar the Mujahideen were preparing to attack the airport.
Keiko spent about one and half months in Kandahar. She has been in Paktia and Zabul as well.
She said the reaction of people in Kandahar were generally favorable towards
Zahir Shah. She saw pictures of the former king beside the pictures of Pir Gailani in the Mujahideen colters belonging to NTFA.
She noticed the weakening of Hezb Island in Kandahar. In her last year's trip she saw Hezb commanders participating in meetings with other Mujahideen to discuss local problems. This year, other Mujahideen met without the participation of Hezb men. The image of Hezb declined further after assassination of Mullah Nasim Akhundzada, a famous Mujahideen commander in the neighboring Helmand province, in Peshawar nearly three months ago.
The Japanese reporter said many refugee families were returning to the liberated areas with little fighting.
The food; situation for the Mujahideen, compared to Paktia and Zabul, was not good, she said. One of the reasons for shortages could be presence of a large number of Mujahideen in fighting fronts in Kandahar, she added.
Kabul were tightened. The Mujahideen fired dozens of rockets at regime installations during the Jirga sessions.
In his speech to the Jirga, Najib proposed holding a referendum under UN supervision to determine whether the,people want a cease-fire. This proposal has been rejected by the Mujahideen.
Najib told the Jirga that he had sent letters to the heads of the two super-powers, in which he had proposed several ways of solving the Afghan problem. He did not give any detail of his proposals.
He praised the role of the UN Coordinator, Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan, for his assistance to areas controlled by the regime. He thanked Saddruddin twice in one short speech.
Najib also asked some former Afghan personalities now living in the West to return to Afghanistan and work for peace.
Also on this occasion he shortened the sentences of some prisoners who had not been involved in anti-state activities. The young prisoners thus released will be sent immediately to serve in the army.
MiG-21 fighter crashes in Kabul
A MiG-21 fighter aircraft crashed inside Kabul city, killing the pilot and injuring six civilians, the regime's radio station reported.
The plane hit a five-story building in Microrayan area, damaging four apartment buildings. The crash set fire tp three cars and destroyed three others.
The jet was returning from a bombing mission in Paghman. A Mujahideen commander has claimed he shot down the plane.