AFGHANews Vol7, No 17, September 1,1991, page ©
Aerial raids kill, injure 400 people in northeast region
The Kabul regime's planes heavily bombed the city of Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar, killing 50 and injuring more than 100 civilians, mainly women and children, on 16 August, Hindukush News Agency reported.
Rockets and bombs hit the center of the city causing destruction of many houses shops and office buildings. All members of two families were among those killed in the air raid which began shortly after sunrise and continued for four hours. Bombing still continued when this report was filed.
Bombing of the areas under control of the Supervisory Council has increased recently. The Kabul regime jets have recently bombed Zebak, Eshkashim, Rustaq, Khwaja Ghar, Keshm, Taliqan, Faizabad environs, Salang and Ghorband causing heavy casualties and material losses to the people. So far, more than 100 people have died and more 300 have been wounded in these bombardments.
The Mujahideen have requested for medicine and surgical equipment to treat the wounded.
According a Council source, the Kabul regime dropped cluster bombs and and bombs weighing 1000 kilo-
gram on civilian targets. Cluster bombs are used to kill people and heavy bombs to destroy their houses and fields.
The source report that the Kabul regime has moved two squadrons of its Su-22 and MiG-21 bombers to Mazar air base to bomb the areas controlled by the Council.
Ahmad Shah Masood, the head of the Supervisory Council, has said that the Kabul regime wanted to avenge its recent defeats in the north by bombing the civilian targets. They also want to prevent the Mujahideen from launching further attacks against the military targets of the regime, he added.
The Mujahideen of Jami'at under the command of Sayyed Najmuddin shot down a Su-22 jet of the regime in Jurm District, Badakhshan Province, on August 16. The Mujahideen captured the pilot of the bomber who ejected by a parachute after his plane was shot down.
The captured pilot. Colonel Abdul Matin son of Abdul Hamid, a residence of Jurm District, has admitted flying 300 bombing sorties against the areas of the Council.
Aid from Moscow keeps Kabul regime in power
Komsomolskaya Pravda, a Soviet newspaper, writes that the problem of Afghanistan has assumed the form of a war between democrats and conservatives in the USSR.
The paper says Najib is kept in power by financial and military assistance from the Soviet Union. Moscow is afraid that if the opponents of the Kabul regime take power in Afghanistan, they will demand war reparations from Soviet Union, which could amount to billions of dollars. If we believe in the current changes in the Soviet Union, we should pay for these war damages, the paper writes.
The paper says that the opponents of the Kabul regime might have gathered evidence to implicate the Soviet Union in war crimes committed during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.
The paper says Afghan experts in the USSR want Najib to remain in power, but acknowledges that he does not have a clean record. He was the head of KHAD during Karmal's rule and the people of Afghanistan hold KHAD responsible for the killing of thousands of people. But Najib's sup-
porters in Moscow believe that Najib can be blamed only for part of these killings.
The paper believes that the three sections of the armed forces of the regime — army, police and KHAD — are kept under three ministries to minimize the danger of revolt against the regime. If one section opposes the government the other could be used to crush it. Fa-example, the Tanai coup was crushed by KHAD.__________________________
Letter from Soviet jail
A Muslim prisoner in Soviet Tajikistan has asked the Mujahideen to demand his release in return for the release of Soviet POWs whom they hold.
In a letter to the July issue of Al-Eslah, an Arabic weekly magazine published in the UAE, Dolatov Abdul Hamid wrote that he was involved in fighting against the Soviets in Afghanistan along with the Mujahideen. On the way home, he was captured by Soviet border guards and now is kept in a political prison in Birma, Tajikistan. He advises the Mujahideen to continue their armed struggle against the communists.
From page (7)
cy. This will also require the assistance of the international community, including the IMF.
Barnett R. Rubin Associate Professor Columbia University New York-U.S.A.
Dear Sin
AFGHANews is a credible paper which is taken seriously by the political circles here.
Soviets express worry that the Mujahideen's victory would destabilize the Central Asian Republics bordering Afghanistan. What is the policy of the Mujahideen towards the Central Asian Republics?
The people also ask questions about the type of Islamic government that the Mujahideen want to establish in Afghanistan. There are many models in the world. To which model would the Mujahideen's government be close?
I hope to read about these two topics in the coming issue of your esteemed paper, AFGHANews.
Tamim Tayeb Utrecht -Holland.
Regime fires 1,500 SCUDs
The Kabul regime has fired 1500 SCUD missiles against the Mujahideen in the past two years. Iraq fired 68 missiles against Saudi Arabia and Israel during the Gulf war.
Najib has fired 20 times more SCUDs against his own people than Saddam launched against his enemies. Yet the world has not reacted to this heavy use of weapons of mass destruction against the villages of Afghanistan.
While Iraq's SCUDs are being dismantled, the Soviets continue to deliver missiles to the Kabul regime. But there's no outcry from those who were so transfixed with horror when Iraq launched SCUDs against Tel Aviv.
Help us publish AFGHANews!
Please send your donations to the following account number:
JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan