Ar&HANevs Vol4, No 9, May i, 1968, Page 2
Kunar
     THE PUPPET regime evacuated its besieged garrison of Barikoot in Kunar province on April 22.
    An estimated number of 700 DRA soldiers and militiamen were flown out by helicopters along with their heavy weapons.
    The base was under Mujahideen seige for two years and the recent attempts by the regime to resupply it failed when they lost two helicopters. This situation forced the puppets to quit the area.
    Communist families were flown out first on Thursday April 21 which was followed by a complete airlift of soldiers and their arms.
    The fall of Barikoot garrison has made a trip to Asmar and Nooristan short and easy. The enemy also lost one of its bases from which sabuters and terrorists were sent to Pakistan.
    Three Mujahideen parties; jam iat. Hezb Islanii (Khalist and Hezb Islami (Hekmatyar) have a presence in the area.
    In another operation the Mujahideen from Jam 1 at destroyed ten DRA posts and killed dozens of enemy soldiers in Chouki district in an attack which started on March 25.
    An estimated number of 100 enemy troops were either killed or wounded, and more than 20 tanks and trucks
 were destroyed. The Mujahideen lost 6 men while 17 others were injured in the operation.
    The posts were set up two years ago on a Mujahideen supply route through which passed Mujahideen groups from Kunar, Laghman and Nangarhar provinces.
    in retaliation to the Mujahideen attack a joint Russian-DRA reinlorcement was sent to the area. Severe fighting continued for 20 days. The Russians left the area after reestablishing the destroyed posts.
  The Mujahideen attack was led by Commander Tariq.
 Kapisa
     The Mujahideen from Jaai at attacked a military post close to Bagram.
    Seven militias were captured and one killed when the Mujahideen attacked their post close to the main Bagram Airbase on March 6.
    Mujahideen who were led by Commander Shaheen captured eight Kalashinkov rifles.
 Parvan
 A DRA General was killed and ten tanks and trucks were destroyed by the Mujahideen in Totom Daraon April 12.
    A regime military convoy was returning from Ghoorband when it was
 attacked near Puli Matak on the Salang highway. It is believed that a large number of the puppet soldiers were either killed or wounded.
    General Shah Agha. the Commander of a DRA force belonging to the DRA central corp, who was direct ing the operation in Ghoorband, was killed in the ambush.
    The Regime force tried to reinforce their beseiged garrison in Ghoorband but due to tough resistance by the Mujahideen they could not reach their destination and returned back to Kabul.
 Ghazni
     The Mujahideen belonging to different parties attacked the regime's polling stations and killed dozens of enemy soldiers in the city of Ghazni on April 4 to 9.
    As a result of the attacks the regime authorities were forced to cancel the election.
     Najibullah, the puppet regime president has admitted that during the so-called election more than 120 of his men were killed and two planes shot down.
 Kandahar
     In three different operations Mujahideen from Jamj'at in Arghandab district have killed 12 soldiers, took prisoner 15 others and seized 25 Kalashinkov rifles.
     The first attack was against DRA forces on March 26. In this attack, five soldiers were killed, 12 others captured and 16 Kalashinkov rifles were seized. Four Mujahideen were injured in the attack.
     The second operation took place on a DRA post on March 24, in which seven soldiers were killed, four others captured and two Kalashinkov rifles seized.
                                                                                                       The third attack was launched against a DRA