AFGHANews Vol 6, No 20 & 21, November 1,1990, page®
Cmdr. Masood speaks to the press
Commander Ahmad Shah Masood ' refugees outside Afghanistan who do not
Commander Ahmad Shah Masood held a press conference in Peshawar on Saturday, October 27.
hi his opening remarks he said:
"During the presence of the Russian troops in Afghanistan, they were fighting an offensive war and the Mujahideen Were defending their positions. With sudden withdrawal of the Russian forces, people inside and outside Afghanistan expected the Mujahideen to topple the Kabul regime. The Mujahideen needed time to move from a defensive phase to an offensive one. They could not do that overnight "Unfortunately, the Mujahideen leaders have not been able to complete this process in the two years since the withdrawal of Russian troops. Instead of focusing on designing a reasonable political and military strategy, a valuable opportunity was wasted on short-term activities. . The Mujahideen’s strengths and . the regime's weaknesses weren't exploited. Consequently, the regime managed to survive, and the war arrived at a stalemate.
"Since no initiative originated from the headquarters of the Mujahideen organizations, commanders started meeting inside Afghanistan. In a four-day meeting near the Pakistan-Afghan, border, we agreed on some major points. Commanders belonging to different ethnic groups, speaking different languages, coming from all comers of Afghanistan and belonging to both Shia and Sunni schools of Islam gathered together and disproved the propaganda that the Afghan people could not agree among each other and that some people want to divide Afghanistan.
"After the commanders' approval of the new strategy, it was necessary to obtain the suppon of Mujahideen leaders and the friends of the Jehad. Because of the insistence of the Mujahideen commanders, Prof. Rabbani's request and the invitation of the Government of Pakistan I came to brief the Mujahideen leaders and friends of the Jehad. Thanks to God Almighty, we were able to obtain approval by most of the leaders for our new strategy.
"I also met with with Mr. Hikmatyar to solve the differences between Hezb and Jami'at. It was decided to go to the people and get their verdict for solving our problems. The party that wins the majority of votes in a district, will form the local administration there."
After his opening remarks. Commander Masood answered the questions of the reporters who represented major international media such as AFP, Associated Press, Reuters, BBC, VOA, Newsweek and Le Monde. Some of the questions and answers are presented here:.
Q. Where will the elections be held?
A. The elections will be held in the 13 provinces where the Supervisory Council is active. We have also invited other parties to take part in the elections and make this election the first step towards holding general elections all over Afghanistan.
Pir Gailani and Maulawi Nabi Mohammadi have accepted the offer. Negotiations with the rest continue. I think, elections will be held before the sping. Elections will be held only inside Afghanistan, and refugees can come, and vote as well as the people living in the cities controlled by the regime..
Q. Why do you refuse to let Najib take part in the elections? If he is not popular, he will lose.
A. The communist party in Afghanistan is shameless and is not ready to accept its defeat. He has already been rejected by the people. There are five million
refugees outside Afghanistan who do not want Najib. Most of the people in the liberated areas do not want Najib. Najib was rejected by Tanai, his Defense Minister, Babrak's brother arid his own brother who defected to the West.
Q. Tell us something about the new strategy of the Mujahideen. How did the Mujahideen leaders, and the countries which support Jehad, react to it?
A. Some political leaders had questions about the new strategy, but after discussion they supported the strategy. The external supporters of Jehad also support the new strategy.
An attack on Kabul is only part oif the new strategy. The military aspects of the new strategy involve starting attacks against the enemy's weak points. These attacks should be coordinated. Guerrilla attacks, disruption of enemy supply lines and sabotage in the cities will be carried out simultaneously.
Q. Didn’t you adopt the hew strategy because of fear of American cuts in aid to the Mujahideen?
A. .The new strategy was adopted by the commanders inside. They were not under any outside pressure. The new strategy is not a reaction to any such pressure. No doubt a decrease in aid will affect the performance of the Mujahideen, but when we decided upon the new strategy we wore not aware of any such decrease. I should add that Jehad will continue even if aid is cut. We started Jehad against the communist regime of Taraki when there Was no outside aid.
Q. In view of developments in Gulf which will affect the aid situation, will you still insist on military solution, or look for a political settlement?
A. We think about both. I believe if the present resources of the Mujahideen are used properly the Kabul regime can be defeated.
We want the Kabul regime to be defeated in the battlefield, but if halfway there, it acknowledges the wishes of the people and gives up, we will accept that.
Q. How strong is the Kabul regime?
A. The Kabul regime is not very strong. Our failure to make use of our forces is the main reason for the survival of thfe regime. The regime is facing a crisis. Its own Defense Minister revolted against it. Arrests of suspect officers still continue. Najib has failed to unite the leftist parties. His "National Reconciliation Program" did . not succeed. Corruption, bribery and injus-* .tice are part of the system in Kabul.
Q. Won't the people of Kabul turn against you if you block Salang?
A. I am certain the people of Kabul are ready to bear some difficulties to get rid of Najib.
Q. Did not you loose your freedom of action by coming to Pakistan?
A. The new strategy was evolved by the commanders inside Afghanistan. I should make it clear that we would accept reasonable proposals presented* by anyone, but we will not kccept those ideas which are not in the interests of * Islam and Afghanistan. Our supporters have shown readiness to support our new strategy. I assure you that the major fronts in Afghanistan have always acted independently and will continue to do so in the future.'	•
Q. Have you asked the Pakistanis not to interfere in Mujahideen affairs?
A. I have told all the friends of Jehad that the best way to support Afghans is to give them the resources and then leave Afghans to do the job themselves. This has been our position from the start. We are in favor of good relations with all, but we won’t tolerate interference.
Q. Who will fill the leadership gap from which the resistance suffers?
A. At the moment we have confined our role to the military and political devel opments inside Afghanistan. We expect that our leaders should work out this problem.
It is wrong to think that Afghanistan lacks personalities suitable for leadership. Holding elections can address this problem. I should make it clear that our esteemed leaders have a limited time to find a solu ticm to this problem. If they fail, the people of Afghanistan must decide. The political leaders have promised to take proper steps in this direction. Our work inside will be carried out irrespective of the outcome of the leaders' talks.
Q. What is your opinion about the view that if the people in Kabul are forced to choose between the two evils, die Mujahideen and Najib, they will go for Najib?
A. I do not agree with this view. If such people go to the North and visit the people in Kunduz they will see that the people of Kunduz want the Supervisory Council's rule.
If the people of Kabul know that Mujahideen operations against the regime are launched under a single command and that the government which replaces the regime is reasonable, they-will have nothing to fear.
Q. What role Zahir Shah can play?
A. Zahir Shah cannot play a positive role in bringing peace to Afghanistan. He is an aged man; he was not a competent ruler in the past and played no positive role during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan The best way for Zahir Shah to serve the people of Afghanistan is not to involve him self in current politics. His involvement would create more problems and Solve none.
Q. Some people believe that a Tajik cannot become the president of Afghanistan.
A. It is better to decide about these things through the ballot box.
Q. Have you been invited to visit Iran? Can Iran plav a role to bring Shias and Sunnis closer?
A. I was invited. I wanted to go, but due to shortage' of time I have postponed my. visit until a proper time in the future.
The Supervisory Council has close re lations with the Wahdat Party. If also has friendly ties with die Shia coalition-parties now based in Peshawar. We are all Afghans and already close. There is no need for our neighbors to bring us close.
Q. Say something about yourself.
A. I am 37 years old. I'm married and have one child. I studied at Istiqlal High School in Kabul and for two years at Kabul Polytechnic. In 1974,1 was forced to go underground for anti-Daud activities.
Q. What is your opinion of the UN re patriation program, and did you ask for UN assistance when you met its officials in Islamabad?