AFGHANews Vol 7, No 6, March 15,1991, page ©
From	the Kabul press
Exchange rates
Summary of exchange rates of some currencies with Afghani at the beginning of February in Kabul:
One US dollar for 795 Afs. one Deutsch mark for 535 Afs.
One French franc for 163 Afs.
One Indian rupee for 36 Afs.
One Pakistani rupee for 33 Afs.
Kabul-Teheran ties
On. Iranian National Day the Najibullah regime called for further improvement in relations between Cabul and Teheran . Regime officers atteqped the reception, held in the Iranian Embassy in Kabul, to celebrate the occasion.
Regime papers published photos of the Iranian leaders and printed articles about the relations between the two countries. "Payam," the official organ of the ruling' Watan Party (former PDPA), wrote that there was no obstacle to improving relations between bran and Afghanistan.
The paper said the current improvement in cultural and humanitarian relations should be extended to other areas. Iran is in a position to use its influence to help find a political solution of the problem, the paper added. It suggested that Iran take part in the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
Another regime paper wrote that the two countries had both opposed imperialism, an indirect reference to the United States, and had been the victims of wars of aggression.
UN trout stolen
The state-run trout farm in Qargha Dam, about 10 kilometers outside Kabul, has been plundered by regime army and militiamen, according to Nawa-i-Subh, a paper published in Kabul.
The trout farm, run by the regime ministry of agriculture, was established with financial assistance from the UN. The UN had invested $100,000 in the farm.
The farm was about to enter its production phase, when the soldiers and militimen started to catch the trout Sack of trouts were brought to the market in Kabul for sale.
The ministry officials had asked the
army to stop its men from destroying the farm but no action was taken.
The paper said a UN official drove to the dam and witnessed the theft of trout by regime soldiers by his own eyes.
The headquarters of the regime's 8th division is nearby in Paghman.
50% of students fail
More than half of the students of Kabul University failed the final examinations which ended on January 26, according to a paper published in Kabul.
Of 6357 students, 3570 failed. The failed students will be given another chance to pass the examinations if their scores are above a certain level. A professor said some students bring letters from government officials authorizing them second and third chances on exams, which is against the rules of the university.
The paper said the students of the university accuse professors of taking bribes. The professors reject these allegations as rumors spread by students who want to pass without understanding the subject matter.
The Kabul regime has refused to close the offices of Watan party (formerly PDPA) youth organizations and "friendship rooms” - political meeting and indoctrination halls - in schools and colleges.
Kabul sends fruit
Council teachers attend seminar
A seminar to introduce teachers to new methods of teaching completed its work in Panjshir on March 4.
The seminar, organized by the Education Committee of the Central Zone of the Supervisory Council, had three phases. A total of 400 teachers from different districts of Parwan, Kapisa and the area north of Kabul participated in the seminar. The seminar began on December 6 of last year.
Rabbani welcomes freedom of Kuwait
The leader of Jami'at Islami Afghanistan, Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani, has congratulated his excellency Shaikh Jabir as-Sabah, the Amir of the brotherly people of Kuwait, for the liberation of their country from Iraqi , occupation. He has prayed for the safety of Muslims and their lands.
*
Children in Kiev, USSR, enjoyed eating Afghan pomegranates donated by the Kabul regime for victims of the Chernobyl disaster, regime media reported.
The distribution of 10 tons of pomegranates and other Afghan fruit flown to Kiev began on February 9.
This was the second shipment of fruit sent to the victims of the Chernobyl disaster. In the summer a planeload of Afghan grapes had been flown to Kiev.
Chernobyl's nuclear reactor exploded in 1986, posing a threat to the lives of thousands of people in the area.
The Kabul regime has been generous in providing food assistance to its Soviet comrades since the disaster took place. The regime also has donated fruit to earthquake victims in Tajikistan.

fiFQHRNam
| withei a. , to Hi
4
\aoaHosK 'UCuheAA.
*

tHeCp us puBCisft AfQZ&lfSletus!
TUase send your donations to the following account num6er:
jnHA'D Account O^p. 735-37 5Ca6i6 ‘BanFLtd.
‘Ichkfd CBala, Ttshazoar •Pakistan