AFGHANews Vol 7, No 3, February 1,1991, page @
Iranian journalist says:
People of Kabul hate
s regime
An Iranian journalist says the ordinary people in Kabul still consider Najibullah to be a Soviet puppet
Mohammad RizaFurqani, who recently returned from his third trip to Kabul, told Danishjo, a weekly published by the students' branch of Jami'at Islami in Tehran, that the Kabul regime's efforts to win the support of the people have failed and the majority of people do not consider it an independent Afghan government.
Furqani met with many ordinary people during his stay in Kabul. They expressed worry about the infighting in the ruling party. These differences, he said, have taken a new twist with the alignment of factions along linguistic grounds. Divisions have been expressed openly since Tanai's coup and his alliance with Hikmatyar.
He said he thought the ordinary people in Kabul had good feelings towards the Mujahideen and that they were disappointed over the lack of unity among them. The commanders' meeting on Badakhshan border, however, had made people in Kabul more hopeful of a Mujahideen victory.
About the economic situation in Kabul, Furqani said the conditions were no different from past except for soaring prices of food and fuel. One kilogram of meat was sold for 900 Afghanis and a liter of petrol for 400 (700 Afghanis make One US dollar). For a family which has a monthly income of 5000 Afghanis life must be extremely difficult The Kabul regime gave food and fuel to its officials at subsidized prices. Families with no government jobholders and low incomes faced great difficulties.
Furqani was surprised by the Soviet resolve to feed the Kabul regime while food rationing was imposed in some Soviet cities. "I was in Kabul when I heard about shortages of food supplies in the Soviet Union. "Moscow asked for food assistance and the Germany was die first country to help. I was a witness to landing of many transport planes bringing food to Kabul I was surprised. How can the Soviet Union give that food to Kabul while it was facing food shortages at home?" he asked.
Furqani said this showed the importance that the Soviets gave to the survival of the Kabul regime. If Soviet economic and military support is cut
the Kabul regime cannot survive for long, Furqani said.
Furqani's last visit to Kabul was in connection with an International Seminar’ to commemorate the one thousandth birthday of Ferdausi, a great Persian poet. The seminar was sponsored by UNESCO and was mainly attended by Russian and regime scholars. Three Iranians also took part in the seminar, including Furqani, non of whom were experts on the subject
Furqani said although the event was a cultural gathering, the Kabul regime wanted to exploit it for political reasons. But the regime failed to exploit it politically because no foreign scholar, except Russians, took part in the seminar; he added.
Furqani is in favor of cultural contacts with Kabul because it serves the interest of the two people, Iran and Afghanistan, who share a common language, religion and culture.
He said the people in Kabul showed a great desire for reading books. Enough books are not available in the country. Iran must meet the need of the people for books, he suggested. He said an exhibition of Iranian bodes will be opened soon in Kabul.
The people in Kabul showed their displeasure with Najibullah's government by boycotting state-run book shops and buying books from private shops at higher prices.
Furqani met with Commander Masood in Peshawar before he went to Kabul. He found Masood a clever and pragmatic leader. He said Masood has the ability to rally the Mujahideen commanders around himself.
Furqani, during his visit to Peshawar, found the Mujahideen commanders very determined to carry on Jehad despite shortage of military supplies and shrinking outside support to the resistance. He described it a positive thing. The negative aspect of the resistance, however, was the differences between Mujahideen groups.
He believes that a political approach will solve the Afghan issue quicker than a military approach. "The Mujahideen have a better chance to win the war politically. From talking to people in Kabul I have reached the conclusion that the Mujahideen would win a secret poll, and that the Kabul regime has no chance of winning an election," he said.
CBR builds five health clinics
The Consultant Bureau for Reconstruction (CBR) has began building five clinics in Panjshir and Takhar. The project, costing about 250,000 US dollars, is funded by World Health Organization (WHO), the CBR chief told AFGHANews.
Engineer Kamaluddin, the executive chief of CBR, said WHO has agreed to fund construction of 17 clinics in the area. The construction of five clinics is the first phase of the project
CBR was founded seven months ago as a non-profit organization and supervised by a nine-member board erf directors. It has a head office in Peshawar and three field offices, in Chitral, Panjshir and Taliqan, Takhar. All its office bearers and field officers are Afghans. The organization has the support of many Mujahideen organizations including the Supervisory Council, Shia fronts and others, as well as commanders from various political parties.
Before the formation of CBR, Kamaluddin was the head of the Reconstruction Committee of the Supervisory Council. He has been involved in the construction of roads, canals, bridges and hospitals in Panjshir.
Kamaluddin said the clinics under construction are of two types: four-room and six-room. He said the building materials like wood and cement will be prepared from inside. The project provides jobs for the local work force.
He said CBR is eager to start work in other parts of Afghanistan. He said the Gulf war was creating problems for his woik because the foreign staff of most of the Western aid organizations with whom he had negotiated for funding his projects have left Peshawar.
?{e(p us pu6Cisfi
PUasc send your donations to the fotfozoiri# account number:
:rzrttw
Account ^(p. 73$-37 MaBiB ‘Bank.Ltd. ‘IchkpC'BaCa, Peshawar Pakistan