AFGHAN NEUS UOt.lll, HO.B, 15/4/ 1987 PRGE 6
                                                                         t
have the guts to do this, especially as they are trying to present a peace-making image internationally).
Nov vhen it comes to proper bargaining between the Soviets and the Resistance, on for instance the shape of an eventual interim government or whatever, I truly believe that you - the Resistance have nothing to be scared of and will be in infinitely the stronger position for one very simple reason:
the resistance has the "cadres", ie the political staff (I do not mean the top political leaders in Peshawar, but those people in the middle echelons who actually do the work, militarily, logistics, administration etc whether in Afghanistan or in Peshawar). The communists one the other hand have none.
 Prophet Mohammad (PB U.H ) said:
 li
 Let him who believes in Allah and the Last Day either speak good or keep si Lent, and Let him who believes in Aifah and the Last Day be generous to his neighbour, and Let him who believes in Allah and the Last Day be generous to his guest\
 The past example of USSR (but the same is true anywhere else in the world) has shown that those will win politically who have the “cadres", the political manpower This was the reason vhy Lenin’s bolsheviks managed to "eat" the mensheviks, the SR, Kerensky, and others during the interim period after the Russian Revolution.
 Soviet political failure in Afghanistan can be dated back among other things from the time they failed to create a proper united and disciplined Afghan communist party. Incidentiy it is not the Afghan children and youths they are desperately training in USSR now who are going to be a danger In 60 years they have not managed to train reliable Central Asian communists, why should they suca»4 with the Afghans who are a great deal more unrully than Central Asian Turks! (The students who in Alma Ata were all komsomol members, ie supposedly communists - so much for the efficiency of Soviet indoctrination )
 This idea which is sometimes advanced that the Soviet Union may wish to divide Afghanistan in two - North and South of the Hindukush, annexing the North - is also baseless The Russians are not suicidal and this would be the quickest and surest way to suicide in Central Asia. (It is not for nothing that at the beginning of the invasion some Soviet Muslim communists were very keen on the annexation of Afghanistan By this they hoped that with the addition of some 15 million Afghans to their rank, they would have a greater bargaining power towards Moscow and greater weight in the internal policies of USSR.)
 Another lesson from the past which Vestern media too often forgets, is that the Russians have never hesitated before to abandon their conquests when the stakes were too high or vhen pressures at home made it too dangerous to indulge in foreign adventures. As an example just for the Soviet period. Kars and Ardahan in 1918 now part of Turkey, Ghilan, Azerbaijan and Gorgan in 1921, Singkiang in 1935-36, Iranian