Vol 7, No 17
September 1,1991
One Soviet POW exchanged with 25 Mujahideen
A Soviet POW was exchanged with 25 Mujahideen held by the Kabul regime on August 12 in Islamabad. The head of visiting Soviet delegation participated in the press conference organized on this occasion.
The Soviet prisoner was Qurban Ali Tashrifev, 24, from Tajikistan. He was captured in 1984 in Toorghundi by the Mujahideen of Afzali front, affiliated to Jami'at Island Afghanistan.
The 25 Mujahideen prisoners to be released by the Kabul regime belong to different areas of Afghanistan and are affiliated to different Mujahideen organizations.
ICRC helped in establishing contacts between Jami'at and the Soviet authorities to arrange the exchange. So far it has brought 11 of the released prisoners to Peshawar by its plane. The remaining prisoners are expected be released soon. This was the first time that the Mujahideen benefitted from ICRC services in exchange of prisoners.
Qurban was handed over to his father who was flown from Moscow to Islamabad to receive his son after 7 years of captivity. Presence of Qurban's father in Islamabad to receive his son was part of the deal. When asked what he would do after returning home, Qurban said that the first thing he planned do was to get married.
Islamabad rejects KGB's claim
Pakistan has rejected the allegation by a KGB official that Islamabad has been trying to destabilize the Soviet Central Asian republics.
A ranking KGB officer has accused Pakistan's secret services of infiltrating Islamic fundamentalist activists into Tajikistan.
An official of the Foreign Ministry of Pakistan denounced the accusation, charging that such accusations were aimed at damaging efforts to find a solution to the Afghan issue.
Mujahideen accept UN peace program
The Tripartite Conference cm Afghanistan, held in Islamabad, gave conditional support to the UN five-point plan for solution of the Afghan problem and demanded replacement of the Kabul regime with a representative .and Islamic government.
The two-day conference was convened on July 28 to coordinate activities of the Mujahideen, Iran and Pakistan for finding a political solution to the Afghan issue.
Iranian delegation in the conference was led by Dr. Velayati, the Foreign Minister of Iran and Pakistani delegation was headed by by Akram Zaki, the acting Foreign Minister of Pakistan. Most of the Mujahideen leaders also took part in the talks.
Before opening of the conference, the number of seats for Hezb Wahdat party, was discussed. The two sides agreed on three seats for that party.
Iran and Pakistan stressed the need for an adopting a consensus policy by the Mujahideen so that they could defend the Mujahideen stand in international forums. After thorough deliberations, the participants approved the UN five-point plan as a base for a political solution.
They also demanded formation of an Islamic and representative government in Kabul to replace the illegal regime of Najibullah.
Hezb Islami (Khalis), Harakat (Mohsini) and Ittihad Islami erf Prof. Sayyaf did not take part in die conference.
The UN reaction to the Islamabad declaration was positive. This was the first time that Iran-based and Pakistan-based Mujahideen sat around a table with the two main supporters of Jehad, Iran and Pakistan.
The declaration of the conference had a positive impact on the resolution adopted by the OIC in Istanbul, Turkey. Soviet Union reacted cautiously to the conference. A Soviet official said the conference was a step towards peace.
A Kabul regime minister expressed anger over the convening of conference on the ground that it ignored Kabul. The criticism was directed against Iran rather than Pakistan and the Mujahideen. The second round of tripartite talks will he held in Tehran on August 28.
In an attempt to find a political solution to the Afghan issue, a ranking Soviet delegation headed by Deputy Foreign Minister Nikolai Kazyrov held talks with Pakistani and Mujahideen leaders in Islamabad on August 11 and 12. The talks did not result in a significant breakthrough, but it was decided to continue negotiations few a solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
Soviet delegation met with President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. Both leaders expressed their desire for finding a political solution to Afghan problem.
The Soviet delegation held formal talks with a delegation of the Mujahideen headed by Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi.
The Mujahideen told the Soviet side that they were not ready to talk to the Kabul regime. The Soviet delegation suggested holding of indirect talks between the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime with the UN mediation, but the Mujahideen did not accept the idea.
Issues concerning POWs and delivery of Soviet arms to Kabul also came undo* discussion but no agree' ment was reached. The Soviet side regretted the Soviet involvement in Afghanistan. The two sides agreed to hold further talks in the future.
This was the third meeting be' tween the Mujahideen and Soviets. The two previous rounds were held in Taif, Saudi Arabia, and Islamabad.
The Soviet delegation flew to Tehran after Islamabad talks to hold discussion on the Afghan issue of the Iranian leaders and Mujahideen based in Tehran.