AFGHANews Vol6, No 14, July 15,1990, page 0

P.O.Box 264y f*e$hawat> Pqklstaa Tel: (0521) 4138) ___________________________________________________
Editorial	\
V	
Cosmetic changes do not make regime acceptable to Afghans
The Kabul regime completed its promised reforms by changing the name of the ruling party from PDPA to the Homeland Party.
This step was preceded by some changes in the regime's constitution and the lifting of the emergency imposed one year before.
The Kabul regime expected that these changes would improve its image at home and abroad and isolate the Mujahideen who,oppose it.
But Najibullah could not achieve what he wanted from his political moves. All Afghans outside the Kabul regime want to see the end of the communists' rule in Afghanistan. The position of the Mujahideen parties is known to be against the regime but even Afghans outside the Mujahideen ranks think that the Kabul regime's removal from power is a necessary condition for the return of peace to the country. These late moves have not changed these positions.
Najibullah's reforms were arranged in a way to influence the superpowers talks on Afghanistan, but he got the clear message that he and his party were con-, sidered to be the main obstacle in the way of a political solution.
There are many reasons for the failure of Najibullah's moves. The first troublesome point is’the history of the PDPA and Najibullah himself. The way that the People's Democratic party came to power, the role it played during the Soviet invasion and the personal role of Najib as the head of the regime's secret police, KHAD, has left no room for ordinary Afghans to believe in the sincerity of Najib's promises. Najib hats admitted to the crimes his party has committed against Afghans. How could changing the name make such a party and such leader acceptable to the people?
If we forget about history for the sake of argument, one clearly sees that the changes introduced by the Kabul regime are cosmetic. In every arrangement Najib wants to be the leader and to control the army, WAD, the police , and the militia forces. He might be ready to give some Ministries of minor importance to others to show that the present is different frtim the past, but he is not ready to give up control of the armed forces.
. A close look at the composition of Khaliqyar’s cabinet shows that Najib is not even ready to give the important Ministries to the people who support his policies. Other communist factions who are cooperating with Najib complain about the tight control of the regime over the whole government machinery.
In Afghanistan’s situation, political moves will prove useful if they are backed with military achievements. At the moment the only positive point that Najib can count on is the "survival card". It is a psychological weapon to keep its supporters’ morale high and encourage outsiders to take him more seriously.
But the 'survival card' is not a permanent weapon. Najib's followers and the outside wjrld, especially the Soviet Union which finances the war, expect from Najib more than just survival. Once Najib can not show any major achievement ihe regime will find itself in a depressing situation.
Problems among the Mujahideen help the Kabul regime to look good. As long as the Mujahideen do not forge unity in the fighting front and do not adopt a reasonable political strategy, Najib will benefit from the situation.
No matter how clever Najib might be he does not have the right tools to win the war and bring peace to war-tom Afghanistan.
Clever political games might prolong the life of the regime a little longer but Najib cannot deceive all the people all the time. Even if the outside world begins to take Najib seriously, the dedicated Mujahideen, those who started the war against the communist regime in the first place, will not let the Soviet agents rule Afghanistan under a different name and new slogans.
Cmdr. Ahmadi
From page (6)
He stayed in Peshawar, Pakistan, for four months during which he learned the tactics of urban warfare.
Ahmadi joined Jami'at Islami when he was a student of Agriculture School in Baghlan. The students in the school were politically active. Most of students were members of the Islamic Movement Some of them later became Mujahideen commanders. Commander Najmuddin	and
Commander Wasiqi were Ahmadi's classmates. The Setam-i-Milli faction was the second largest group. It was a radical communist group with followers among non-Pushtun Afghans, mainly in the north. Discussions, debates and arguments between the supporters of the Islamic Movement and the communists drew a large audience from the students and gradually they affiliated with one side or the other.
In addition to school subjects, Ahmadi had to study books about Islam so that he could defend his faith.
After completing agricultural school, he got a job in the agriculture department of Keshm. He remained there for six months before joining the Faculty of Agriculture of the Kabul University.
Ahmadi's childhood is described by himself as normal with no major event to mention. He was bom in Dara Kushk village of Keshm in 1957. His father, Haji Noor Ahmad, was a farmer, The family had enough agricultural land to support it He first went to a mosque school to leam the basics of Islam and later became a student of Keshm Secondary School. He was the leading student in his class. In Keshm school he was not involved in politics but saw some teachers propagating an Islamic revolution.	Ghulam
Mohammad Aryanpoor was one of them.
Ahmadi has come to Peshawar to treat die injuries he received during Khwaja Ghar operation.
Refugee drowned
An Afghan refugee was drowned in Mardan river on Monday June 22, MIDI A reported.
Mohammad Alem, 50, from Ningarhar Province wanted to cool himself by swimming in the river but was drowned. He lived with his family in Khishtu refugee camp near Peshawar. The body of Alem has not been recovered.