AFGHAN NEWS
VOL. II

UTfe12-86.
JS=L
        According to a report from Jaraiat representative in India, Eng.Mohammad ICabir, Indian police authorities have not permitted Afghan refugees in India to demonstrate against Soviet embassybto mark the black day of 27th April —the day Communists took power in Afghanistan.
        Jamiat office in India in a press release has strongly condemned the action taken by India or Ghandi dynasty police authority. The press release reads" "... we'Afghan refugees took this undemocratic attitude of the government with great pain and distress that India being the non-aligned and democratic country playing with the sentiments of the Afg-
                                                                        i
     han people ignoring all norms of humanity as well as its ageold relation
     with the Afghan people ..."
        The Soviets invaded Afghanistan in 1979 but still there are a lot of countries who have embassies in Kabul and are trading partners xvith the puppet regibe.
        All these countries, on several occasions have rejected the legal status of the puppet regime end have not offered any formal recognition to it. These countries which include muslin countries* (except Saudi Arabia) non-aligned countries and Western democracies have voted for the withdrawal of the Soviet troops and the recognition of the right of the people of Afghanistan for self-determination.
        But still they have deploraatic relations with the puppet regime and the regime enjoys a normal trading partnership with them. We believe that any such relationships are a weak point which the Soviets and their puppets are fully exploiting.
        Fuppet Babrak some months ago mentioned that his regime has diplomatic relations with a large number of countries and that it is a sign of that his regime is enjoying de facto recognition.
        It is incomprehensible hovmone could have a relationship of any kind, under any name with a regime which has come to power under the Soviets and does not control a major portion of the country of its population.
        The time has come to correct this and give recognition to the Afghan resistance and cut all relations with the puppet regime. The presence of foreign embassies in Kabul, under the protection of Soviet troops is a humiliation to the countries who keep them there.
        VJe think most of the countries in the world have embassies in Moscow and there is no need for having a presence in occupied Kabul. VJe aak from all those who are concerned about the cause of the freedom of the Afghan people to cut their relationship with the puppet regime and end the contradiction of verbal support for Mujahideen.