AFGHANews Vol 8, No 6, March 15,1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Comander Saifuddin
Commander Saifuddin, 39, is one of Jami'at commanders in Taliqan who have been leading 300 Mujahideen in the war against the Soviet and the Kabul regime forces.
Saifuddin began armed struggle in Taliqan at the beginning of 1980 and brought under his control dozens of villages east of the city of Taliqan. He aborted several attempts by the Soviet and regime troops to expand their control east of Taliqan river. He took active part in the liberation of Taliqan in 1988.
Saifuddin was one of the first commanders who welcomed Masood’s efforts to unify Jami'at Mujahideen under the umbrella of the Supervisory Council. He knew Masood because they had met in Pakistan immediately after the April coup of 1978.
Saifuddin is one Of the early members of the Islamic movement He joined the movement when he was a student of Taliqan High School. Communists were active in 70s in schools. Setam-i-Milli (national depression party), a splinter group of PADPA, was very active in Takhar. Saifuddin, his brother Shujauddin and some other students stood up against the communist onslaught on religion and Islamic traditions. They were guided and assisted by the members of the Islamic movement from Kabul university. Fayyaz and Sayyed Abdur Rahman, both martyred by the communists, helped them fight communism effectively. They also struggled against the governments of Zahir Shah and President Dand which were corrupt and indifferent to the well-being of the people.
After completion of his studies at high school, Saifuddin became a student at the Teacher Training Academy in Kabul where he continued his political activities. Daud's crackdown on the Islamic Movement forced its leader. Prof. Rabbani, and some of its leading members to take refuge in Pakistan. They had realized that .peaceful means may not bring the desired result and prepared to train and aim a selected group of the members of the movement. Saifuddin was one of those who was trained in basic tactics and use of weapons. He returned to Taliqan with
some weapons and waited for orders of the leadership.
After graduation from Teacher Training Academy, he began to work as a teacher in Nahr-i-Chaman . secondary school. After a while, he was transferred to Eshkamish where he came in contact with
'
several teachers who later became Mujahideen commanders. He was there until April communist coup. Few months. after the coup, he migrated to Pakistan. During one and half years of stay in Pakistan, Jami'at sent him to Paktia where an armed struggle against the Kabul regime had just started.
At the end of 1979, he and a group of Mujahideen returned to Takhar. A few days after arrival, the Mujahideen liberated Taliqan and held it for one week. After recapture of Taliqan by the communists, Saifuddin began to organize the Mujahideen in his area. Abdul Waheed, a Jami'at member who knows Saifuddin well, described him as an extremely good man with good reputation. He is honest and conducts a simple way of life.
One of the reasons that Saifuddin could not expand his influence was shortages of weapons and other resources. For different reasons, he was not helped sufficiently.
Being a teacher he has paid attention to education of children in his area. He has opened a primary school in Nahr-i-Chaman.
Saifuddin comes from Pashaii tribe. His father, Anjamuddin, migrated from Bolaghain, Kohistan District, Kapisa Province, to Taliqan in search of good life. He was a farmer and worked on his own land.
Saifuddin went to the school mosque of his village, Nahr-i-Chaman to learn the basics of Islam. He entered Nahr-i-chaman primary school, where his uncle, Gulbuddin, was a teacher. He helped his father in his daily work after school hours.
His brother described his academic performance as average. He is not married and his family are living as refugees in Chitral.
Saifuddin has always stayed inside Afghanistan and has come to Pakistan twice to fetch weapons and ammunitions.
Kabul rejg^ and released five franian prisoners at
over to Iranian embassy m Kabul and
'ft'

•AS&m,-p^eWsaisi; tat<He&. of)
mmMtm
Franck ft* _
. ii ii Wi,
Tajitowt	°f
members of Economic Coqperattou