AFGHAN NEWS
No. 2
5:2-1985
P-10
ANDKHOY DISTRICT
               (these reports reached us after two months).            ,
Russian-Karmal forces launched a large offensive in the Andkhoy area of Faryab province which resulted in the destruction of at least ten villages and a large number of civilians being killed. The ‘offensive which is considered to be the. largest one. since the; Russian invasion, lasted for two days during which., the ground forces wdirSe supported by Helicopter gunships.                                 r‘'- ■  ;
According to the report the. enemy.soldiers entered Andkhoy District On Dec.6.84 and -surrounded the; area with hundreds of tr’o'ops and dozens of tanks arid armoured fighting vehicles. Mujahideen from;the area used hit and run tactics to inflict losses on the enemy; -The report says that
Mujahideen were able to destroy three tanks and kill.; JfO enemy soldiers.
                                                                  •' - j-
including Russians. Six Mujahids were also martyred.
RTJNDUZ ^PROVINCE
 A large convoy of Russians, on its way to supply Ishkatnish district, was ambushed by Mujahideen from Kunduz at Arab Qudugh village. The ambush resulted in-the' destruction of two tanks and the death.of about 16 entemy soldiers.
 PANJSHIR VALLEY

  ■Feb^-2-85
  According to a report;."Mujahida-en of, Abdara and Feraj attacked an enemy base at Anawaw which resulted In the death or 'injury of about 19 enemy
.soldiers.                       •     .....
  Feb-3-§5
            D.uring an operation by Mujahideen, from Abdara" against an enemy .base ... at Dhrstebak (the lower -part of Rukha.) , Two' tanks’ and 13 vehicles, were destroyed . Another tank ;was. .destroyed by anti-tank mine at -.Rukha.
                            KABUL (KARIZ .MIR)         ’  - -      '"i
 'Febi4-85'-                              1
 The enemy attacked Mujahid bases at Kariz'Mir (15 km North of Kabul city). After seven hours of fighting Mujahideen were able to destroy two tanks and kill many DRA soldiers.According to the report the enemy could not, collect the dead bodies of its soldiers including a high-ranking government political officer. The report says that four AK-^s, a ■ cojnmunication systemand many different, kinds of. ammunition, were cap-
tured .
FARYAB PROVINCE
According to a reliable report a well-known and committed Commander of Jamiat in Faryab city has been martyred by the enemy. He was 31 and was loved and respected by his fighters and the common people. He had captured or destroyed more than government posts and outposts. His groups were -operating in the city of Faryab.