flFBKOH h£US VOL .III, HO. 13, 1/7/ 1907 PAGE 4
 1/6/87. Mujahideen clashed vith the enemy forces in Eushk district 60 Km North of Herat. Enemy forces suffered heavy casualties. Mujahideen captured about 200 guns. The report does not give any details about casualties of the tvo sides.
 16/6/87. Mujahideen launched a surprised attack against the enemy forces in Khifan area in Sheendand district. 24 Armed soldiers "were captured vith one tank and one truck Several enemy soldiers vere either killed or vounded. One Mujahid vas Martyred and tvo others vounded.
                                               REPORT FROM SALANG
 31 /5/87. Mujahideen attacked the enemy posts and a convoy in Salang, as a result of vhich 6 Tanks and APCs and 10 oil-tankers vere destroyed, 40 soldiers (mainly Soviets) « vere killed and 19 others vounded
 4/6/87. An enemy convoy vas ambushed as result of vhich more than 30 oil-tankers and tvo AKs vere destroyed and a large number of soldiers killed or vounded.
 5/6/87. Mujahideen attacked the enemy in Bagh Maiden area in Salang as a result of vhich 20 oil-tankers and Truck carrying ammunition vere set on fire and 30 soldiers either killed or vounded.
 6/6/87. Soviet launched an attack against Mujahideen's position. Fighting continued for three days.During these days Salang highvay remained closed for traffic. 9 Tanks and tens of trucks belong to the Soviet and DRA armies and AFS0TER company vere set on fire. An approximate number of 8 men (Soviet and puppets ) either vere killed or vounded during the operation. 8 civilians and 3 Mujahideen vere Martyred and 2 other Mujahideen vounded. The Soviets failed to achieve their aims and vere forced to terminate their operation.
 Heavy bombardments of the area by the enemy air force continues. It should be added that Mujahideen in these areas do not have effective veapons against the enemy aircraft. The enemy's aerial superiority has caused many problems for both the Mujahideen and the civilian population.
                                        OFFENSIVE IN QANDAHAR
Afghan Nevs received a letter from Mullah Naqibullah, Jami'ect Islami commander in Qandahar in vhich he gives the details of the enemy offensive vhich vas launched on May 22nd and continued up to June 12th. Here are some important points of the letter:
ENEMY LOSSES
More than 1000 enemy soldiers (DRA) joined the Mujahideen An approximate number of 500 Soviet and DRA soldiers vere either killed or vounded. Among those vho vere killed vere several DRA high ranking officers. Tvo Ml-24 Helicopters vere shot dovn and 34 tanks and APC destroyed.
MUJAHIDEEN LOSSES
100 civilians vere either killed or maimed. 60 Mujahideen vere Martyred. 10 Truck, belonging to the Mujahideen vere destroyed A BM1 and an 82 mm RR gun vere destroyed by the enemy fire. Tvo Truck loads of Ammunition vere set on fire. Most of the vineyards and houses of the area vere destroyed.
The report says the fighting vas very severe and the tvo sides fought each other at close range. It vas learned that besides the Soviet troops, DRA units vere brought to the battlefield from all over Afghanistan. Some of the captured soldiers told the Mujahideen that they vere prisoners up to January 15 of the current year. Their release vas a step in the implementation of the so-called "National Reconciliation", but