AFGHANews Vol 1, No 10, May 15,1991, page ©

Wisdom of

the sages
Prisoner of himself
An ill-natured man is a prisoner of fly to the skies to flee misfortune, but if his own bad temper. Wherever he goes, you are bad-tempered, you carry your he cannot escape the unpleasantness own misfortune with you. that he spreads around him. You can
Squabbling enemies no threat
When you see your enemies squab- 8° make merry with your friends, bling and quarreling among them- As soon as they make a common policy selves, sit back and laugh. But if you and speak with one voice, then get see them united, then start worrying, ready to use your artillery and While they are fighting with each other,. ammunition.
Beware of friendly tricks
When your enemy has exhausted he will use that friendship to ruin you all his bag of tricks, he then tries to be- more surely than he ever would have come your friend. And if you let him, done with war.
Defeat enemy by enemy
Use your enemy to crush the snake's head, so that you may be sure of at least one positive result: if he kills the snake, you are rid of the snake; if the snake kills him, you are rid of your
enemy.
On the day of battle, never underestimate an apparently weak enemy, for whoever is cornered and despairs of his life, will claw out the lion's eyes.
Ruler's friendship not reliable
Never rely on the friendship of rul- who has too many friends; and if you
ers, nor ever be taken in by the sweet do give your heart to such a one, be voice of young boys. A mere whim can
change the former and the first sweet
sure you will loose it, and that the end


dream can break the latter.	of the affair will be separation and
Never fall in love with someone loneliness.
Wasted knowledge and riches
There are two types of people scholar? That numb-skull cannot tell who waste their lives and whose ef- the difference between a load of forts remain fruitless: the man who learned books or a load of brushwood piles up wealth without ever using it ‘ for the fire, to make himself or others happy; and the man who labours to acquire knowledge yet fails to act on what he knows.
However much you study, if you do not put into practice what you have learned, you will always be an ignorant fool! Load an ass with half a ton of books, does that make him wise or a
Three things
There are three things which must be coupled with three other things in order to survive: wealth with trade; knowledge with free speech; the state with the strong arm of the law.
AFGHAN PROVERBS
Ija.
God has said, "Start moving so that I may start blessing."
Meaning; We must do our part for God to bless; or,
God helps those who help themselves.
<5* L> ^
In childhood you're playful. In youth you're lustful. In old age you're feeble, so when will you before God be worshipful?
Meaning: It is easy to find excuses for not worshiping God.
Death is not for the young, nor for the old (but for all).
Meaning: Death devours lambs as well as sheep.
In bad days a man calls even a donkey his uncle.
Meaning: Necessity teaches the bear to dance.
Narrated Az-Zubair bmAI-Awam*
• :••••. . •• •• :■ .
TheProphet (peace be upon him)
pNo doubt, one had better take] a rope and tie a bundle of wood arid sell it whereby Allah will keep his face away (from Hell- |
may give or not."
IS
I
m
m
