AFGHANews Vol7, No 1, January 1,1991, page ©
Commander Najmuddin prepares for peace, war
"The area was free; people were happy; die law and order situation was good; schools and hospitals were opened and contraction of irrigation channels and building of roads had started."
This was the observation of Abdush Shokoor, an Afghan now studying in the International Islamic University, Islamabad, who just returned from a four-month trip to Jurm and Baharak districts of Badakhshan. He met the famous Jami'at commander, Sayyed Najmuddin Waseeq, while he was there.
He found Mujahideen organization more firm than in the past Councils of elders and Ulamas were formed to deal with local problems.
In Jurm, the Mujahideen had opened a high school for girls and a high school for boys. In Baharak also there were high schools for both boys and girls. Primary schools have been opened in all major village of the two districts.
Jurm has a 15-bed hospital. There is a clinic for women run by a lady doctor who graduated from the Medical Faculty of Kabul University. Baharak has one clinic.
The road to Faizabad, the provincial capital of Badakhshan, and to Eshkashem, a town on the Soviet border, are open and local merchants bring goods to the area along these routes. The Mujahideen have repaired a 25-kilometer road connecting Jurm to Hazarat-i-Saeed in the upper part of the Yamgan Valley.
The Mujahideen try to help the local people by improving the conditions of the existing irrigation channels and digging new ones. They are facing problems due to lack of cement and rock drills.
Improved seed provided by Afghanaid and the UN helped the people to grow more food than previous years, but because of sustained drought, it did not have a substantial effect on the general food situation. Food, brought from Takhar via Faizabad, and from Eshkashem is available only at high prices.
The UN distributed some food to the local people last year. The food was brought in a convoy from Eshkashem to Baharak.
This year, the UN has brought some more food which is supposed to be distributed in return for work. Distribution had not started.
The Kabul regime has a garrison
in Zebak and another in Eshkashem. Last year, Sayyed Najmuddin captured Zebak but later he lost it because a group of Hezb Islami Mujahideen attacked his base in Baharak while he was busy fighting the communists. Kabul regime troops were supported by Soviet artillery fire in the operation to recapture Zebak. Sayyed Najmuddin thought that the Soviets would not intervene but he proved to be wrong. Najmuddin says that the Kabul regime has fewer troops in Zebak than last year but has mined several areas.
Jurm city had been repaired by the people and one could not see any sign of war. In Baharak the Mujahideen had permitted the building a new market.
Commander Najmuddin had forbidden growing opium poppy in Jurm. This year no poppy was cultivated in the area. The Mujahideen decision, based on religious requirements, was fully supported by the local Ulama.
Sayyed Najmuddin gives an impression of a mature leader. He faced many problems during the Soviet occupation. In 1986 he was driven out of his base. He came into contact with other commanders. His contacts with Commander Masood have had an effect on his way of thinking. Now he mixes military operations with cultural work and struggles for creation of a civil administration to serve the people. He thinks about all Afghanistan instead of his valley alone. He leads a simple life. People call him "Aagha Sahib” and respect him because he is a sayyed, a descendant of the family of the Prophet of Islam. He has gathered a group of educated people to help him run his administration.
Sayyed Najmuddin has firm control over Jurm and Baharak but his relations with the neighboring Zardiw valley, which is controlled by Hezb (Hikmatyar) and Ittihad (Prof. Sayyaf), are tense. The tension between the two has helped the Kabul regime to survive in Zebak and Faizabad. Najmuddin is in favor of a fair solution which guarantees the rights of both sides, so that he can turn against the communists.
He has formed a battalion of 500 men. Troops are being trained by his officers.
Talks between different Jami'at commanders in Badakhshan for forming better unity continues. Aryanpoor, Basir Khan and Najmuddin met one month ago, to discuss their relations and ways of improving them.
Iranian diplomat killed in Lahore
An Iranian diplomat was gunned down in Lahore, Pakistan, on December 19. Police have made several arrests but there is no information about die identity of the culprits and their motives for the murder.
Sadiq Ganji, the Director of the Cultural Office of Iran in Lahore, was killed when he was entering a local hotel to attend a cultural function organized to say farewell to him. He was about to return to his country. An Iranian student accompanying him was seriously injured in the incident.
Pakistani officials condemning the murder have promised to punish those involved the murder. The Iranian government has accused anti-Islamic and anti-Iran elements in the assassination of its diplomat. Ganji's body was flown to Tehran for burial.
Pakistan, USSR hold talks on Afghanistan
The Prime Minister of Pakistan , Mian Mohammad Nawaz Sharif, has said talks between Pakistan and the Soviet Union would soon be held to discuss the problem of Afghanistan, APP reported.
He said the Pakistan government's stand on Afghanistan remained un changed. Pakistan wants a government in Afghanistan which is acceptable to the people of that country, to pave the way for the return of refugees to their homes.
He said the Pakistan government had been in constant touch on this issue with the United Nations, U.S.A, Iran, Saudi Arabia and the representatives of the Afghan Mujahideen.
‘Melp us publish
ATgMWCews!
PCease sendyour donations to die fothmring account numBer:
fEZ&HD Account 735-37 9(aBiB ‘Bank.Ltd. ‘IehkaC'BaCa, tPesfazoar Pakistan