AFGHANews Vol 7, No 14, July 15,1991, page ©
Hlfjit
> Sayyed Mohammad Roeen
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Sayyed Mohammad Roeen
Sayyed Mohammad Roeen, known as Aamir-i-Mujahid, is the Chief Administrator ( Amir) of Jami'at in khar Province and a central figure of the Supervisory Council.
Roeen returned to Takhar from Pakistan in 1983 and was appointed Amir, of that province. On the way to Takhar, he spent some time with Masood in Panjshir and discussed with Mm his future work. In those days Jami'at Mujahideen in Takhar were not organized. Each commander acted on his own. This weakness prevented Jami'at from playing a role as the majority party of the Mujahideen in a strategic area.
Roeen made Farkhar Valley his base and started to work for the improvement of the situation. In the meantime,
Masood had started to work in the North and established the first base of die Supervisory Cpuncil in Khaylab Valley, Eshkamish District As the time passed, Jami'afs Mujahideen realized that they were not able to do fight the Soviets effectively if they did not unite their ranks. The Mujahideen in Takhar were becoming increasingly interested in the type of work Masood had successfully - undertaken in Panjshir. Roeen started to cooperate with the newly-established Supervisory Council. The situation in Farkhar and adjoining areas improved and, in 1984 and 1987, Farkhar and Kalafgan garrisons were captured.
These victories established Farkhar as die main base of die Supervisory Council. Sayyed Ahmad Roeen played an extremely useful role in the above achievements. Masood praises the commitment and zeal with which Roeen pursued the task he was assigned to accomplish.
Roeen was injured in a road accident in Farkhar in 1987. He was treated in the United States and returned to Takhar soon after his recovery.
He emigrated from Kabul to Peshawar in 1979. In Peshawar, he was in charge of feeding and lodging visiting Mujahideen. This is the reason why he gained the tide of Amir-i-Mujahid (the head of the Mujahideen).
of work in the Ministry ofN Mines and Industries, he joined the Faculty of Engineering of Kabul University. He was expelled from the faculty in 1975 because of his connection with the Islamic Movement. In the same year, he was jailed for three months because of political activities.
After a year of military service, he started to work in the Cartographic Institute of the Ministry of Mines arid Industry. At the start of the communist coup, he waked for three months to mark the border between Afghanistan and Tajikistan Republic of USSR.
Roeen was politically active during his service in the Ministry of Mines and Industries. He encouraged many workers and officers of that ministry to join the resistance. He also smuggled out maps of Kabul and other parts of Afghanistan and gave them to Jami'at's Military * Committee and some field commanders to be used for planning military operations.
Many workers of the ministry joined the Islamic Movement as a result of Roeen's work. One of .them was Mohammad Ebrahim from Panjshir, who became one of the early supporters of Ahmad Shah Masood. Commander Ebrahim lost one of his hands in fighting ajgainst the Soviets and went to Switzerland for treatment On the way back to Panjshir, he was martyred by bandits in Laghman Province.
Roeen was bom in 1951 in Agsai village, Chah Ab District His father, Sayyed Rahmatullah, was a religious
General Razaie meets Afghans
GtmeraT Mohan Rezase, the Chief Commander of the Revolutionary Guards of the Islamic Republic d| Iran, met with Mujahideen leaders; and commanders in Islamabad during his via^ Pakistan. *
Prof. Rabbam, Sayyed Ahmad Gaiiani and Mawiawi Nafri Mohammad! were among a group of Afghans who met with the Iranian commander.
Expressing support for the cause of the Afghans, General Resale said Iran and Pakistan were coordinating their efforts for achievement of a settlement in Afghanistan He also discussed Kashmir and Gulf security with Pakistan leaders.
NIFA minister
quits office
Farooq Azam, the AIG Education Minister and deputy chief df NIFA, has resigned from his posts in the AIG and his party.
Be called the AIG "a dead organi-and criticized1 Prof and Sayyed Ahmad
_ .	..	.	,	,	..	.	scholar	who	earned	his	living through
Durmg his slay in Peshawar, he prav«d w	OT ^ tann
tA KA A H/VMAA# AAW1/MI ««tKn AA«tlA<1	w	*	*
Mohammad learned the basics of Islam
to be a honest person who served the cause of Islam selflessly.
Roeen joined the Islamic Movement through his cousin, Sayyed Enayatidlah Shadab, in 1971 when he was still a high school student He studied at Habibia High School up to tiie 9th class, and then joined Afghan Institute of Technology. After one year
from his father and later went to Manoochehry primary school in Chah Ab.
Roeen is married and has one child. Being one of pioneers of the Islamic Movement, he tries to bring the early members of the movement close
cess after it'was started; He also criticized <&3ani, his party leader, for
met wftlrNajib in Geneva; but continues to deny It
It is oe secret that Farooq Azam had differences of opinion with his leader for many years, but oeverthe-
smarts. In an interview with the BBC claimed he had sacked
party leader one mentii beforf.

According to AUSTCARE, the
Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) has approved more than Auu. $500,000 for Afghan refugee	Ihe
eraey,, reconstruction and^rehaislita-tioa, and a mobile eye clinic. The aid is to be channeled tiirou AUSTCARE. AV1CEN, Save the Children Fund, the International Rescue Committee (IRC), and the Agency Coordinating Body I Afghan Relief (ACBAR) are u receive mast of the AIDAB funds