AFGHAN
niws
                  A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMl'AT ISLAHI AFGHANISTAN
                            Post Office Boi No. 264, Peshawar- Pakistan.
                                 Yol. II. No. 23. 1/12/1986.
                                        ANOTHER SIGNIFICANT VICTORY
                                                                                                                        %
 The fall of Nehrin garrison oh November 13th was a significant victory for the Mujahideen. This victory came in less than three months after the fall of Ferkhar
 garrison.
 Nehrin is a district of Baghlan province 35 km. N-E of Bagh&lan city ..The garrison was manned by more than 400 men from the puppet army In 1979 Mujahideen captured the same garrison but it was re-e$tablihed and strengthened. In the past Mujahideen had attacked the garrison several times but were not able to capture it
 When the council of the North was formed, Abdul Hay Haqjoo, the chief commander of Jami’at in Baghlan agreed to co-operate with the efforts of Cammander Masood in coordination and re-organizational work in the North. As a result of this agreement the
 victory over the garrison became a reality.
 This victory indeed encourages the Mujahideen of this area and will serve as an example for the Mujahideen of the rest of Afghanistan to see the result of co-ordinated actions carried out by trained Mujahideen, applying the surprise element.
 It is interesting to see that when Mujahideen were planning the attack on the garrison they were fighting another battle against the enemy forces in Ferkhar which was trying to re-establish the garrison they lost two months ago. The enemy lost that battle too
 The following conclusions can be drawn from the victory in Nehrin.
        1-  The North has undergone a significant organizational change and has moved to a new stage in the war for liberation (jehad).
        2-  There is an improvement in the tactical abilties of the Mujahideen, to lead battles in which more than 500 men are taking part.They surprised the enemy in coordinated action and won the battle with relatively low casualties.
        3-  Self-sacrafice is an obvious facet of this new development. People from different areas are commnaded by local commnaders Ye should admit that this was not possible in the past.
        4-  Great descipline during and after the battle is shown in all the operations. The spoils of war belong to the organiaztion and the prisoners are delivered to the judicial authorities and the Mujahideen take precaution of possible enemy counter attacks. These elements to a large extent were missing in traditional wars.
        5-  Both Mujahideen and the civilians’ morale have been boosted. This iat victory will improve morale yet more. The puppets morale is lowe. After their recent crushing defeat and the unabiiity of the Soviets to help them will demoralize them further. !