                                  RFimmi mn m.iu, mi, ft, ivanwe, pnrm k
    22/2/1988: In a surprise attack on a DRA stronghold in Dehsawar, Mujahideen captured the post and took prisoner 34 soldiers out of whom 8 militiamen were killed when they resisted and refused to surrender.
    The arms seized from the post included: 2 mortars* 2 DSchk, 42 different types of machine guns and AK-4?s and 16 boxes of hand grenades.
    Kabul Province
    25/2/1988: Mujahideen of the Jegdalik area led by commander Mohammad Anwar, conducted an attack with heavy weapons on a Russian post in Pasina Tahna area near Saroobi district. Two tanks and a military vehicle were destroyed and 12 Russian soldiers were killed or wounded.
    5/2/1988: In an operation against the enemy District headquarters in Hesarak, about 30 militias including some local KHAD members were killed and an arms depot was burned as a result of BM-i and BM-12 shelling carried out by the Mujahideen.
    Two Mujahideen were wounded in the operation.
    Kandahar Province
    27/2/1988: Fifteen enemy soldiers were killed and 3 APCs were destroyed when the Mujahideen attacked a DRA military column passing along the Herat-Kandahar highway. The military vehicles which were loaded with arms were hit by Mujahideen rockets and burned.
    Three Mujahideen were killed and 2 others were injured.
    On the same day a DRA army dump was destroyed and 10 soldiers were killed when the Mujahideen raided an enemy post in Puli Safid near Arghandab district.
    Jowzjan Province
    4/2/1988: In a series of offensives on five DRA posts in Aqcha district, Mujahideen were able, after 4 days of fighting, to capture the posts and seize 36 light weapons. More than 30 enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded and 16 others were taken prisoner during the operations.
    On the Mujahideen side, one was killed and 11 were injured.
    Herat Province
    6/2/1988:   Three APCs  and  one  truck  were   destroyed when the
    Mujahideen attacked an enemy military column on the Herat-Islamqala highway. Twenty enemy soldiers were killed or wounded, and 6 others were captured.
    One Russian jeep, 6 AK-4?s and several motorcycles were also seized during the operation.
    Mujahideen casualties have not been reported.