Vol 6, No 8	April	15,1990
setback in Herat
In a spectacular operation the Mujahideen from Jami'at killed the Deputy Minister of WAD (State Security), the Police Commander of Herat, three militia commanders and several other ranking regime military and civilian officers on April 6. The Governor of Herat and several other officers were seriously injured. Four Mujahideen were martyred in the operation, which lasted 15 minutes. For details turn to page (2)
United Nations to send Afghan refugees home
Kabul admits war destruction
The Kabul regime has told the UN that 60 percent of dwellings in the countryside and 20 percent of those in the cities have been destroyed in the war. The regime has also estimated the number of refugees in the neighboring countries at five million, 4.17 million of whom come from the countryside.
The Najibullah regime has given the UN a paper detailing the destruction of houses. A copy of the document has been given to the Mujahideen by their contacts in the regime.
According to the paper, 20 percent of the houses in rural areas and 10 percent of the houses in the cities need to be repaired.
The paper says that 53 percent of all houses in the country have been destroyed, and that 18 percent need to be repaired.
This is the first time that the regime has admitted that five million Afghans have become refugees outside their country and that about 70 percent of the country's dwellings were destroyed during the Soviet occupation.
The great destruction in the countryside shows how the Soviet Union bombed and destroyed the areas controlled by the resistance. Twenty percent of the destruction in die cities was in the Outskirts controlled by the resistance.
Mujahideen sources have estimated that 75 percent of the houses in Afghanistan have been destroyed, which is close to the figure provided by the Kabul regime.
Hopes for UN assistance have forced Najib to admit the great destruction and uprooting of the population brought about by the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
The UN is planning for a partial return of Afghan refugees from Pakistan and Iran during the coming summer.
In a press conference held in Islamabad, Prince Sadruddin, the UN Coordinator for Afghanistan, told the reporters that the refugees will return to the "zones of peace and tranquility".
He said the refugees were tired, frustrated and homesick. The UN will help to make them able to return to their country, he added.
In the press cbnference the director of World Food Program and die UN High Commissioner for Refugees were also present.
Prince Sadruddin claimed that in about two-thirds of Afghanistan the situation has returned to normal. He named Kunar, Badakhshan, Nimroz, Herat, Badghis and Hazarajat as zones of tranquility.
The UN coordinator said that the return of refugees must be voluntary. He said UN will make sure nobody is forced to return or prevented from returning.
He argued that reconstruction work in Afghanistan should not wait for a political settlement.
He made an edged comment about Afghans, saying they either were in war
with foreigners or among themselves. This comment reminded Afghans of a similar comment by Ismailia militia commander Sayed Mansoor, who told a British camera team the same thing.
Prince Sadruddin claimed that 200 projects of Operation Salam are at work in 29 provinces. He also claimed that his men freely cross the line separating the regime from the Mujahideen to deal with both sides.
Prince Sadruddin and his entourage spent eight days in Pakistan, during which he discussed his plans with Pakistani officials including President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto. Pakistani officials' response to the UN plans have been positive.
He also met the leader of the AIG and Hezb Islami leader Gulbuddin Hikmatyar. Prof. Mujaddidi's initial reaction to the plan was positive. He said if Kabul regime did not bomb the areas where the returning refugees are settled, most of the refugees will go.
Prof. Sayyaf, the prime minister of AIG, opposed the idea and said refugees will return only when the communist regime in Kabul is removed from
Turn to page (8)