  AfGHANJNOB W.S_YQi. JI____________NO. 23 1/12/1986 PAGE 10
 age Children study and stay in the hostel of the orphanage. They are fed and lodged by
 the orphanage.
 The orphange is like a boarding school. They follow a well prepared program which includes, reading, writing, history, natural science, mathematics and sports There is a strong emphasis on religious subjects.
 Among other activities the students of the orphanage sing revolutionary songs, which are recorded and sold to the public and they watch films of the activities of the Mujahideen inside Afghanistan.
 So far the orphenage has been visited by a large number of journalists from print and electronic Media and the children have told of eye-witness accounts of Soviet atrocities f
 The director of the orphenage is Habibullah Ghalib an Afghan scholar who graduated from Azhar university in Egypt.
 Madina orphanage is funded by Shaikh Ebrahim Jolaidan a citizen of Saudi Arabia. The African Islamic relief organization is also providing help to the orphenage. Jami at Islami is closely co-operating with the orphanage administration. This co-operation has proved vital for achievements of the orphanage.
 Afghan News admires the establishment of such an institution as a good humanitarian and educational work and wish that the orphanage acheives its aim. There is a need to expand the present orphanage and open more of this type. There are more orphans to be taken care of. Any step in this direction whould be very much appreciated by the
 Afghan resistance.
                                 ERMACORA'S REPORT
 The most recent report of Felix Ermacora on the violation of human rights by the Soviets and their puppets in Afghanistan wms published by the UN authorities. The United Nations only published part of the repoit not all of it.UN officials say that the reason for partial publication was lack of funds
 Others believe that there is a political reason behind this decision The parts which are not published deals with grave violation of human rights by the Soviets and their puppets and the UN authorities were afraid that publication of the whole report could have made the Soviets angry
 It is a pity that the UN has tried to cover up some d facts for the sake of good relations with the Soviets who are fighting a colonial war cince 7 years. The whole purpose of sending an envoy to survey the situation is to let the people know about the facts The Soviets and their puppets have not permitted Mr rmacora to go to Afghanistan and report the situation in areas under their control The reason is simple. Thieves are afraid of Ugh The Soviets are afraid of reporting the facts. The covering up by the UN authories is a deplorable act which only help the aggressor. A persian poem says:
  "Mercy on the sharpteethed Jeopcrc A<* an act of injustice to the sheep "
                Covering up the suffering of millions of Afghans is injustice to the cause of freedom and if it is done by an organization Like the UN it is a tragic event.
                                        * * *
    SOVIETS CAN DESTROY AFGHANISTAN
                          BUT CAN NOT OCCUPY IT
                                         * *