   AFGHAN NEWS SPECIAL EDITION_____15/11/19&6___PAGE 3
                                      ORGAINZED WORK IN THE NORTH,
                                          AN EFFECTIVE CHALLENGE
 Before we see what the Mujahideen have done and what they are doing now as far as organizational work is concerned, it is better to briefly discussthe socio-political contest on which the organization is being built
 The terms like organization, mobilization and coordination have only rarely been used amongst Mujahideen in the area, and some who knew these words did not know how to bring them into practice There were also those who thought it is impossible to achieve this goal of organizing the war Different parties, differnt nationalities, different languages, different socio-economic interests were the reasons for those who were "justifiably pessimistic"' Militarily speaking, every village had its own commander who * was proud of protecting that given village from occasional enemy attacks With the passage of time these village commanders grew bigger up to district level or even provincial levels and in the meantime grew more independent. Some of them \ considered themselves if not the petty kings, the "absolute Maliks" of that village or district. They were themselves the only source of authority
 In many cases even if they were affiliated to one political party they did not only cooperate but also competed and fought amongst themselves. Charging higher taxes, disarming another weaker group without any good reason, deciding on life and death of people without a judicial system were the characteristics of some of the commanders but fortunately very few in number
 To correct these things a plan was needed, a practical plan, an effective commander and a dominant party. Commander Massoud, with the help of Almighty God, became organizer of this challenge and Jamiat Islami as a party became its strong backing power.
                               PHASES OF ORGANIZATIONAL WORK:
 (t) Preliminary meetings:
 Based on Prof Rabbanis permit, there were three general body meetings in which main Mujahideen commanders from about six provinces of-the North participated. The first meeting was at Shar Shar ( Eshkamesh district in Takhar province) in 1983- The second one, bigger than the first, was held at Khawak (Panjshir) in 1984. And the third one was held at Khailab(Takhar) in 1985 in which practical decisions were taken. In the third meeting some other effective commanders from other like-minded political parties also participated In all these three meetings the main question was how to organize and coordinate Mujahideen and help civilians. In the first practical step, the meeting resulted in the formation of the Supervisory Council of the North.
 (2) Supervisory Council:
 It works in between the sessions of general body meetings. It has an executive force combined with an effective administrative power. It enforces the decisions taken by the meeting of the commanders. It has a strong judecial system to deal with the problems concerned. It includes different committees such as financial, cultural, educational, health It prepares a report of its problems and achievments to be presented to the meetings of commanders. It has authority over six provinces. Although its works are promising still, due to economic reasons and lack of personnel, it works more slowly than expected. It needs more time to be firmly established
 (3) Solving poJtical problems:
 "Political problems were enormous but thanks God solvable" The head of Takhar Sayed Ahmad from Jamiat told me that there were tensions (a) Amongst some Jamiat commanders, (b) Between Jamiat and other group commanders and (c) Amongst other