--■ —----------AFGHANews Vol5, No 6, March 15,1989, page 7
Journalists contribute to liberation of Afghanistan
Foreign journalists helped the liberation of Afghanistan by telling the world about the true situation in that country, but some of the reporters hurt the cause by painting a wrong picture of the resistance.
The communist coup of 1978 did not become an important news item. It was considered a domestic change in a third world country. The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in December of 1979 made the issue a headline for the world press. Foreign journalists became involved to cover the war.
The Afghan resistance was keen to put through its story and wanted to help foreign journalists to cover the war. A large number of journalists contented themselves with a few days of interviews of the Mujahideen and political workers of the resistance parties in Peshawar. Those who wanted to go inside the country to report the war were very few.
Finance
There were different reasons for lack of interest in part of foreign journalists to go inside Afghanistan with the Mujahideen. The major problems were the difficulty of the journey and physical rides facing journalists. Time was also a major element in discouraging the journalists. Most of journalists could not afford one month or more to travel with the Mujahideen. The companies for whom they were working did not finance such uncertain and risky trips.
Crossing the, border into Afghanistan was illegal and the journalists were smuggled into the country by the Mujahideen. While crossing the
border from pakistan had its own difficulties, crossing the border from Iran was extremely difficult Iran itself was in involved in war with Iraq and its relations with western countries were not good. These two things had a negative effect on the activities of the Journalists in covering the war in the western parts of Afghanistan. In ten years of war only a few journalists could go to Herat province to cover the war.	*
Lack of trained guides and translators was an additional problem for the journalists who did not know the language and were totally dependant on
their host Mujahideen for protection, food etc.
As the war continued, the world started to take the Mujahideen more seriously. People wanted to know about Afghanistan and its people. They wanted to know how the people of a small and poor country were resisting a ruthless Super-Power. To meet the demand for more news a large number of journalists wanted to cover the war.
Despite increased interest the major press and electronic media companies never appointed permanent representatives to cover the war. Commercially it was not feasible to undertake such a project
Agencies
The major news agencies had their permanent correspondents in Pakistan, but their first job was to cover the event in the host country. Covering the war in Afghanistan was a secondary aim of these people. More than that, these correspondents were not allowed to enter Afghanistan to cover the war.
This was the reason why the Afghan war was not covered on a daily basis by the world media. With few exceptions the journalists who were able to do the job were freelance..
Soviet Union tried to scare journalists from entering Afghanistan. A few journalists who were captured were branded as spies and tried on false charges. A Soviet Ambassador in Islamabad told journalists that if they went with the Mujahideen, Soviet forces would help the regime to kill them. Some journalists were killed by the Soviet forces. But those threats did not stop the committed journalists from travelling with the Mujahideen to cover the war.
Soviet Union
The Soviets also tried to use the western media to tell their side of the story. Their way of treating foreign journalists varied in different stages of the war. Up to 1986 only those foreign journalists were allowed to travel Co Afghanistan who were considered friendly. Those who were allowed were restricted to official tours of a few cities and pre-arranged interviews with and briefings by the regime officials. Openness in the Soviet Union changed the situation. Soviets started to use western media to highlight regime's successes in military and political
fields.
The number of journalists who flew to Kabul via Moscow and Delhi reached to several hundred on different occasions.
Foreign journalists served a just cause by honest reporting it. They told the world about the devastation of villages, indiscriminate bombardments, extensive use of mines and suffering of millions of civilians. Their reporting helped different governments to take a stand on the issue.
The contact of professional journalists with the Afghan resistance helped the resistance to learn the art of reporting the war. The Afghan resistance have learned the importance of objective reporting and the use of camera in support of the cause.
Most of the foreign journalists who covered the war were from western countries and Japan. Few journalists from third world countries bothered themselves to cover the war in Afghanistan. Cultural gap and language barrier were the cause of some bad reporting which harmed the resistance.
Opium
Over-simplification of the political programs of resistance groups and unnecessary comparison of the Afghan resistance with other groups in the Islamic world created wrong impressions about the nature of the Afghan resistance.
Some journalists overused the terms like fundamentalist, moderate and extremist in their reportings . In most cases they were labels to dramatize the story or fill the space. Some others, under the cover of objective reporting, mixed every story about Afghanistan with drug trafficking.
I remember a New York Times correspondent who came from Afghanistan with a story about the cultivation of poppy in the liberated area. He told his story in such a way as if every piece of land in the country was cultivated with poppy and Afghans were eating opium instead of bread. 1 told him that what he had seen was a partial picture.
Most of the Mujahideen are against poppy growing and if they can they will stop. When Mujahideen leaders were in an official visit in Washington, the New York Times published a big article about poppy growing in Afghanistan while reporting the Mujahideen's leaders talks with the US