- flFGHFM NtU© VOL. Ill, NO.t, 1 {\f 1©B7 PttJE 7
Having this in mind Mujahideen when they go to fight usually leave a written will or tell their friends how much he owes from whom and how it should be paid.
Mohammad, an expert in reciting holy Quran joined a group of Mujahideen who were to attack an enemy post in Andarab. Somehow he had felt beforehand that this would be his last day. He distributed all his belongings among Mujahideen fellows and paid what he owed to others. While giving his radio to a Mujahid he put one condition and that was, "Don't listen to undecent music with it It is alright for news and revolutionary songs" He was martyred in action. The story of his death saddened all the people around and they prayed for his soul.
Sayed, another fellow who had come from Paris, was supposed to take part in the battle against Nahrin garrison. His group was supposed to move in darkness and hide themselves for 24 hours close to the enemy positions. It was a cold night. He went and washed himself in the river and started to recite holy Quran. When the attack started his group captured their target. The enemy mortar shells crushed among them. He and some others were injured badly He said to a man close to him: "I will be martyred soon. This is what I wished. My books should be given to Mehrab,.a friend of mine and 1 owe some money to a French Journalist which should be paid from my money".
Agha Shireen a group commander was waiting very close to the enemy line for the last instruction from his commander. He was seen writing something in a small note pad. One hour later he was dead. The notes he had taken was about the money he owed to some friends and how it should be paid.
The events show hoV our heroes are preparing themselves for a clean and honourable death. A death which leads to eternal life.
                                   Hot sponsored by the alliance
Hezb Islami (HikmAtyar group) recently opened an information bureau in New York. The representative of Hezb claimed in a press conference that the bureau was sponsored by the AUiance of the Mujahideen.
The Islamic Alliance of the Mujahideen has not yet decided about opening an office of the Alliance in New York. Therefore the Opening of Information Bureau is the work of Hezb alone and only represents that organization.