
AFGHAN
NEWS
                  A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM 1‘AT 1SLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                            Post Office Box No. 264, Peshawar- Pakistan.
                                 Yot. II. No. 20, 15/10/1986.
                             UN GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND THE AFGHAN ISSUE
 The UN. General Assembly has decided to discuss the Afghan issue on November 4th.
 In the past the Gemeral Assembly has passed with an absolute majority, resolutions asking for the withdrawal of forlegn (Soviet) troops from Afghanistan, the restoration of an Islamic and nonalligned status of Afghanistan; the right of the people of Afghanistan to decide their future and the honourable return of about 5 mil lion refugees to their country.
 The Soviets have rejected the resolutions and the war has continued. On the other side the efforts of the UN. General Secretary for finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan In the form of proximity talks between the Government of Pakistan and the Soviet puppets has continued since 1982. So far nothing has come out of these talks and there Is no hop* for its future either.
 While these efforts by the international community is appreciated and take root from their desire for peace in Afghanistan, there are some hard facts which must be taken into consideration.
 1. The resolutions are not strong enough A super power has invaded a small neighbouring country without provocation and as a result of that at least half a million people have died. 5 million have become refugees outside their country, 2 million more have turned internal refugees and 75$ of all the villages and towns have been destroyed. Vet still In the resolutions there is no word of condemnation and the name of the inavader. in similar circumstances if the aggressor was somebody eise i am sure the outcry would have been much louder and the resolutions much stronger and thfc aggressor would not have escape un-named.
 2. The proximity talks which are going on under the auspices of the UN General Secretary do not contain all the items of the resolutions passed by the General Assembly. The main weak point of the talks is the absence of" the right for self-determination of the people of Afghanistan " from the agenda. The Soviets and the Afghan resistance, who are the two sides of the conflict are not present in these talks.
O F