■AFGHANews Vol 5, No 6, March 15,1989, page 3
Interim Government meets inside Afghanistan
From page (1)
News
From page (2)
One Mujahid was killed and another was wounded.
On February 15, the Mujahideen ambushed an enemy patrol destroying one jeep and killing a communist.
On February 20, an enemy convoy which was going from Shiberghan, the provincial capital of Jawzjan, to Mazar-i-Sharif was ambushed in Samawar-i-Safid area. Two armored cars and one truck were destroyed and an unknown number of the enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded.
The report adds that since the February 15, about 450 enemy soldiers and militiamen have defected to the Mujahideen throughout the province.
Baghlan Province
On March 4, two Scud missiles were fired into Andarab valley in Baghlan. One of the missile hit Rashidi village in Qasan, side-valley killing 25 people and destroying 4 houses. The other missile landed on a mountain.
of Jalalabad and said to the reporters that re-inforcement was sent to that city.
A large number of civilians have left the city to avoid the war. They have crossed the border to Pakistan. The Mujahideen encourage the evacuation of the city from the civilian population to minimize the casualties of the civilians.
The regime forces make extensive use of their air force to push the Mujahideen out of the areas they have captured. Several planes have been shot down by the Mujahideen, possibly with Stingo’ missiles.
Before launching die major attack, the Mujahideen announced a general amnesty for all those who joined them. The purpose was to minimize the bloodshed as much as possible.
Fighting for control of Jalalabad was more difficult and longer than some Mujahideen parties were expecting.
As usual, the communist regime in Kabul and the Soviet Union accuse Pakistan of direct involvement in fighting around Jalalabad. Pakistan has rejected the allegations.
If Jalalabad is captured it will be a
at the first meeting of the cabinet. Three of the seven leaders, Hikmatyar, Khalis and Gailani were not present in the meeting.
After the cabinet meeting and introduction of the minsters, Prime Minister Sayyaf addressed a press conference and hoped that the next meeting of the cabinet will be held somewhere closer to Kabul.
It is believed that as long as the regime controls the major air bases, the Mujahideen can not establish a government infrastructure in liberated areas because they do not have an effective air defense system.
One day before the cabinet meeting Saudi Arabia announced its decision to recognize the interim government of the Mujahideen.
On February 24, Mujaddidi, the President of the Mujahideen government, called for the recognition the in-
major military victory for. the Mujahideen and will demoralized the communist forces in the rest of the country.
On the other hand, if the war turns out to be long, the regime will claim that it is able to defend itself without Soviets direct support
The surprising thing about the Jalalabad operation was leaving the Kabul-Jalalabad road open. The Regime sent re-inforcemenis and supplies to the besieged city.
Eye witnesses admire the courage of the Mujahideen in fighting around Jalalabad. Despite high rate of casualties the morale of the Mujahideen is high.
The leading party in Ningarhar is Hezb Islami (Khalis) followed by Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar), Ittehadi-e-Islami (Sayyaf). NIFA ( Gailani), Jami'at Islami and others. Cooperation between of different parties is good.
The fire power of the Mujahideen in the Jalalabad fighting is strong and partly it is because of shorter and easier supply lines.
The communist regime has admitted that the city has been heavily de-
terim government.
The United States, Pakistan and Iran have not recognized the Interim government of the Mujahideen.
The United States has set certain criteria for the government to meet in order to make legible for recognition. The criteria includes control over large territory, civil administration and fulfillment of International, obligations.
Iran would like to see the participation of Iran-based parties in the Government before considering, its recognition.
Gulbuddin Hikmatyar went to Iran to discuss the problem of the participation of Iran-based parties in the interim government A delegation of Iran-based parties may come to Pakistan for further discussions.
Iran-based parties bycotted the meetings of the Consultative Council over the number of seats allocated to them. They were offered 60 seats while they asked for 120 seats in the council.
The Mujahideen have asked the Organization of Islamic Conference to give the Afghan seat to the interim government of the Mujahideen.
A similar request also has been made by the head of Kabul regime. Dr. Najibullah. The seat of Afghanistan in OIC has remained vacant since 1979.
OIC Foreign Ministers meeting was opened in Saudi Arabia on March 13. The Afghan issue will come under discussion in the meeting.
Recognition of the interim government of the Mujahideen by Saudi Arabia has increased the chance of Mujahideen's success on the diplomatic fioilt.
Earlier, Sibghatullah Mujaddidi the President of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan asked Afghans to remain united against the communist regime.
In his first speech to the Afghan nation which was broadcasted through the clandestine Mujahideen Radio, Voice of Afghanistan, he said that Soviet withdrawal was a historic victory.
Mujaddidi said that the interim government of Mujahideen wanted the regime to be defeated, the country to be reconstructed and general elections to be hold in the country.
Two more countries, Sudan and Bahrain has recognized the Interim Government of the Mujahideen.
Fighting for control of Jalalabad
From page (1)