AFGHANews Vol 6, No 5, March 1,1990, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Sahibul Haq
Commander Sahibul Haq was bom 37 years ago in the village of Sufi Baba in the district of Bagram of Parwan province. His father, Mia Ali Khan, iom the Mia Khail Pushtoon tribe, was a farmer possessing a piece of land with a small garden in the village of Sufi Baba.
Sahibul Haq completed his primary schooling in Qala-i-Beland and his high schooling in the center of Bagram district. Sahibul Haq also studied the basics of Islam and the Holy Quran in the Mosque near his house. His Father stressed to him that without strong faith in Islam one could not benefit from school education.
Upon completing his secondary education he worked as a farmer with his father. Later Sahibul Haq tried to find meaningful employment in Kabul, but this proved unsuccessful due to his lack of contacts. As a consequence he departed for Saudi Arabia and started to work as an ordinary worker. For approximately three years he worked in Saudi Arabia until the communists
took power in Afghanistan in 1978. This prompted Sahibul Haq to return to Afghanistan and fight against the communists.
At first Sahibul Haq travelled to the Bagram area of Afghanistan and joined the Mujahideen. His first posting was at the base located in the first mountain of the eastern flank of Sufi Baba. Sahibul Haq's representative stresses that conditions were extremely difficult for Sahibul Haq and his men. In 1981, Sahibul Haq met for the first time Commander Masood in the Panjshir Valley who gave him advise in relation to fighting strategies and methods. Subsequently the two commanders have developed a strong friendship.
Initially Sahibul Haq had just 20 men under his command. This has now expanded to approximately 3S0 men, in addition to 15 sub-bases under the command of four junior commanders. Their primary role is to place pressure upon die enemy's air base and security posts around Bagram. Sahibul Haq personally fights in all big operations.
Gom. Damullah Sayed Ameer
Commander Damullah Sayed Ameer s/o Rahmatullah was bom in Daraeem valley of Badakhshan about 46 years ago.
His father was a farmer. "Poverty was a part of his family's life," said his representative in Peshawar. As a north-on Tajik villager, his father used to keep one or two horses to play Buzkashi (Afghan polo). His father was a good rider, so his son also became one of the best known Buzkashi players.
Commander Sayed Ameer did his primary education in the mosques of his village and completed his higher education in the religious schools, called Madrasas in Takhar and Kunduz provinces.
When the communists took power in 1978, Damullah Sayed Ameer left his studies and joined the Mujahideen. He started to worked as a Mujahid first and later became the commander of Daraeem.
SayedA meer presonally leads his Mujahideen in fighting against the Russians and the puppets. He has good relations with other commanders.
His groups have also participated in operations outside his valley. He led his Mujahideen in fighting the enemy in Keshm district which resulted in the capture of the district two years ago. Two of his Mujahideen were killed and
he himself sustained minor injuries.
In fighting around Faizabad in 1980 he lost 14 men and 25 of his Mujahideen were wounded. Six of his Mujahideen were captured by the Russians in the same battle. The capture of his men by the enemy was a painful experience which still bothers him.
Commander SayedAmeer has helped his people to open schools in the valley. He has lost 14 members of his own family in the war against the Soviets. He is a soft-spoken person a and a kind commander. SayedAmeer is the father of three children,
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
1
<*5.1	<*i>I	I
A bird that has flown from the hand will not return.
Meaning: It's no use crying over spilt milk.
.JuJjj 4a IJ jl iya 4±jS die
Salt preserves meat, but what can be done with salt if it is bad.
Meaning: If you have too many preoccupations, you will succeed at none of them.
JuuSu	U
A mother won’t give milk to her child until he cries.
Meaning: Unless we ask for something, we don't get it.
■tpAJ	J9	J*
Even if a knife is made of silver, a person won't stab his own heart with it
Meaning: Don't side with your best friend or even with your sojt if he is in the wrong.