fiFBHfiHtCMSWOL.nl, HQ. 13, 1/7/ 1907 PftCE 8
                                                EXCERPTS FROM
                                    ‘AFGHANISTAN’S OTHER WAR’
                                                By Jeri Labor
 Virtually every knovn crime of var is taking place there, and on a scale so vast it defies imagination. Children are among the most victimized. They are bombed in their schools, locked in their homes and burned alive, shot vhile fleeing to caves in the mountains or enroute to refuge in Pakistan They are spied upon and urged to inform against their families and friends. They have lost hands and eyes by picking up “toys’ that have exploded in their faces.                                      (
 IDEOLOGY
 The Soviets are at a disadvantage They seek to impose a communist ideology that has-gone bankrupt in their ovn country and is foreign to Afghan thinking, an ideology that most Afghans consider atheistic, evil, and decadent. Moreover, since only a small part of the country is under Soviet control, they can hope to influence only the children living in Kabul and'a fev other cities But the Soviets have had long experience in subduing ethnic resistance in other countries, most pertinently in their ovn Central Asian republics They believe that they are bringing progress and enlightenment to a poor and backvard nation and they have not scruples about the methods that they use.
 They began, soon after the 1979 takeover, by thoroughly overhauling the Afghan school system to make it conform to the practice of Soviet schools both in structure and in what is taught Soviet advisers, Soviet teachers, and Soviet-published textbooks vere brought in, and socialism and dialectical materialism vere added to a nevly standardized curriculum Russian replaced English as the required foreign language, and Afghanistan's history vas revriiten as a continuing struggle against imperialism, aided by an enduring friendship vith the Soviet Union.
 Teachers vho resisted or had independent vievs vere fired, many vere imprisoned or executed, others fled the country. Students membership in Party organizations became necessary for scholastic success, and party loyalty required students to inform upon their teachers and each other.
 Acknovledging the strong hold of Islam on the Afghan people, the Soviets moved cautiously in religious matters Some Islamic teaching vas alloved to continue in the schools, carefully monitored to prevent any criticism of the government. Still, about half of the eligible students are not enrolled in schools. Some 90 percent of the Afghan population is illiterate, and the Soviets soon learned that it is senseless to distribute propaganda to a population that does not read. A nev approach vas necessary.
 INDOCTRINATION
 In late 1984 the Afghan regime launched a program under vhich thousands of very young children-six to nine years old. or younger are sent to the USSR each year for ten years or more of study. (According to some reports, the Afghan government is committed to sending a minimum of 2,000 children a year ) The purpose of the program is evident to remove children from the influences of family and tradition, to teach them at an impressionable age. to shov them a "better life’ in the USSR, and -ultimately-to offer them the opportunity to lead Afghanistan into a communist future. Some of the youngsters sent to the USSR are the children of Afghan communist party members, sent vith their parents' blessings.
 Others, hovever, are sent from their schools vithout their families' consent, and sometimes vithout even their knowledge. Refugees report from Kabul that hundreds of children have been taken from their homes by agents of the secret police or seized on