AFGHANews
Editorial
We are sure of Mujahideen's victory
Development since the Soviet withdrawal ace a source of concern to some supporters of Mujahideen outside Afghanistan. They expected a quick victojv. Jalalabad operation had generated a lot of expectations. The way its propaganda side was handled gave the impression of an easy victory.
Some Mujahideen circles who also expected a quick victocy over the regime brces share the same concern but a great number of commanders were not surprised by the course of developments. These commanders had warned about possi-)le tough resistance by the enemy and the unpreparedness of the Mujahideen to exploit the shock that the regime forces were supposed to experience from Soviet withdrawal.
The Mujahideen, who were fighting a defensive mobile war, were not able to re-organize themselves quickly to fight a conventional war.
Normally, it takes years for guerrilla groups to move from one phase of war to another-from a defensive war to an offensive.
In Afghanistan, Soviet forces left before the resistance had reached a higher degree of organization development
The Mujahideen need to take the proper steps to reach the stage of launching offensive attacks on a large scale against major enemy targets.
Jami'at commanders are evolving a strategy to reach that stage of the war in the shortest possible time. Formation of a guerrilla army and adoption of large scale mobile warfare are the essential ingredients of this strategy.
Primary work for the implementation of this strategy has already begun. Jami’at has the experience, organizational ability and vision to take the lead.
Our enemy has many weak points which , if exploited properly could lead to its destruction. It does not have enough manpower to move to an offensive war. It does not have the support of Afghan people. Its logistics lines are vulnerable. It depends on supplies from the Soviet Union. It can't fight the war on its own terms because of the little territory it controls and hostile population it is surrounded by.
All these weaknesses cannot bring the regime to its knees by themselves unless they are exploited wisely and quickly * because-weaknesses may not be permanent
The Miijaliideen have to make full use of their time, favorable environment, outside support/enough manpower and a popular cause to improve their performance in the shortest possible time.
The Mujahideen leadership have been busy with non-military issues since Soviest left High expectations forced the Mujahideen political leadership to think more about running Afghanistan after liberation than about winning the war. Formation of the interim government and dealing with the problems arising from it, negotiations between Peshawar-based and Teheran-based Alliance, etc. have drawn attention from the battlefield and resulted in a low level of military activities aU over Afghanistan.
It is wise to think about the future but the immediate future most be dealt with first The first priority is winning the war. Our leadership should concentrate on this issue.
We believe in the final victory of the Afghan people. The quicker this victory is the less they will suffer: A quick victory does not come through wishful thinking. It comes through organized work, unity among the resistance forces and adoption of a workable strategy.
. Individual parties may not have all the elements that bring victory in but collective action of all will solve the difficulties.
No li, June 1,1989, page Q
Regime calls atrocity victory
The regime has been able to feed the Salang atrocity against civilians as a major military victory against Mujahideen to the Western media.
The regime claims that Salang operation launched by Soviet and regime forces some weeks before the Soviet withdrawal was a major blow to the Mujahideen.
The Soviets launched massive air and ground attacks against the villages controlled by the Mujahideen in Salang valley prior to the completion of their troop withdrawal on February 15. About 800 people, mainly civilians, were killed, all the villages on both sides of the road were razed to the ground by artillery fire and aerial carpet bombing.
The regime fired more than 20 Scud missiles into Panjshir and other valleys close to the Salang valley.
The Mujahideen had no plan to attack leaving Soviet troops. Therefore, that operation could be justified as a defensive measure. It was a major operation against the civilians in the area and cannot be tamed a 'major victory' for the regime.
After February 15, the Mujahideen brought a section of road under their control For two months the Mujahideen allowed only food convoys to pa<^ and the road was blocked for militarv convoys.
In two months a large number of soldiers were captured by the Mujahideen or defected to them, and about 1000 light and heavy weapons were seized, in addition to large quantities of food and ammunition.
How can one call, the atrocity in Salang and post-withdrawal developments there a victory for the communists? It was a disaster for them.
Some visiting journalists who did not have background information about the events fell into the trap of the regime and Soviet propaganda and falsely called an atrocity against civilians a 'major military victory1 for the regime.