AFGHANews Vol 6, No 4, February 15,1990, page ©
News
From the battlefields ^ ■ - _________________>
Parwan province
• More than 120 vehicles were destroyed and 100 soldiers were killed by an huge explosion in the regime base of Qala-i-Surkh at the mouth of the Salang valley on January 24. The explosion was caused by a time bomb set by Jami’at members within the base.
The explosion which took place at 8:30 am set on fire a convoy loaded with fuel, ammunition and goods which liad reached the base the evening before.
The area was covered with smoke arising from burning vehicles and installations. Explosions and fires continued the whole day.
Most of the one hundred soldiers killed belonged to the ill-fated enemy convoy.
Qala-i-Surkh was a Russian base in Jabulseraj which was handed oyer to the regime when the Soviets left last February. Since it is located at the mouth of the strategic Salang valley it serves as a transit point for the enemy military and supply convoys. Because of its. location, it provides protection for the enemy controlled areas in major parts of the Shemali plateau. It is located on high ground overlooking Shemali.
Jami'at controls all the liberated areas around the base. The Mujahideen commander in Jabulseraj is Dagarwal Ghulam Jailani.
Commander Masood has called the explosion a big incident.
•Thirty seven' soldiers, including five officers, were killed and eight tanks and trucks were destroyed when the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked an enemy convoy near Bagram Air Base on January 8.
The tanks and truck were either destroyed by land mines or were hit with RPG rocket launchers. The Mujahideen seized 40 boxes of
Kalashnikov ammunitions and 300 mortar shells.
•On January 9, the Mujahideen fired heavy weapons into Bagram Air Base, killing 27 enemy soldiers and destroying 9 vehicles.
The operations in Bagram area were launched under the command of Sahibulhaq, Jami'at's commander in Bagram district.
Kabul province
•Four enemy soldiers were killed and two were wounded in Easa Khail village of Paghman district when the enemy tried to capture the village on January 28. The enemy retreated when it faced fierce resistance by the Mujahideen.
•An enemy MiG-21 jet fighter was shot down on February 1 in Paghman district. The jet was bombing the Mujahideen position in Dara-i-Zargar when it was hit with ZPU (14-6mm) anti aircraft machine gun fire.
One of the two pilots was killed and the other ejected but was killed when he refused to surrender and tried to escape.
The regime forces launched a retaliatory attack which was repulsed.
•In two separate incidents, two enemy trucks were destroyed by landmine explosions in Deh Sabz district.
On January 31, a truck belonging to the local militia forces was destroyed when, it hit a landmine planted by the Mujahideen near Abdara-i-Sufla village. Six enemy soldiers were killed and one officer was injured.
Two days later, a landmine destroyed another truck, killing four soldiers and injuring eight.
According to a report by Mullah Fazlur Rahman, Jami'at commander in Deh Sabz, his Mujahideen have captured two trucks full of wheat and one
oil tanker in Qala-i-Ghulam Qadir village and killed or wounded some enemy soldiers. One Mujahid was wounded in the operation. The Mujahideen also attacked a unit of enemy forces stationed in Maidan Deh Sabz, destroying one tank and one jeep. Seven soldiers and one officer were killed in the operation.
The unit was stationed along the newly-built Kabul-Parwan road to provide security for the regime convoys.
Kandahar province
•An enemy transport plane was shot down near Kandahar airport on February 8. The plane was about to land when it was hit by a rocket fired by the Mujahideen from Jami'at. No details of the casualties were available.
Kanadahar is the second largest city in Afghanistan besieged by the Mujahideen. It is mainly supplied by air.
•The Mujahideen from Jami'at clashed with the enemy in Maiwand district in Kandahar on January 29, destroying two trucks and killed an unknown number of enemy soldiers'. One Mujahid was killed and two Mujahideen were injured.
•Commander Mullah Naqibullah reported that his Mujahideen attacked an enemy post near Pushtoon Bagh in Dand district on February 5, destroying one enemy tank, killing two soldiers and wounding seven. The Mujahideen lost one man in a mine explosion.
•The Mujahideen under the command of Mullah Naqibullah attacked an enemy post near Kandahar jail on January 28. Two enemy soldiers were killed, three soldiers were wounded and seven armed soldiers joined the Mujahideen. Two Mujahideen were wounded in the operation.
/
•The Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Mullah Naqibullah cut the supply routes of the enemy posts in Chil Zeena and Mahbas areas on February 9. The enemy launched an attack to clear the road. Seventeen enemy soldiers were killed.
Nimroz province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at ambushed a unit of the regime's militia forces in Kang district, killing four militiamen and wounding eight.
In the fighting which continued for
Turn to page ( 4 )