 1 IMTKEHAffli OrAUCOHn ALLAH 1
AFGH ANnews
             A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264. PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                     VOL. Ill, NO. 14, 15/7/1987.
                              THE POLITICAL ASPECT OF THE AFGHAN ISSUE
 The Soviets have become active in the political si<Je of the Afghan var and pay more attention to that than in the past . This nev mode has made some people say that Gorbachev vents to get out of Afghanistan. But the facts on the ground speak against * such a theory at least for the time being.lt seems that he vants to vin the var both in the military and political fields. A brief study of the Soviets steps in Afghanistan (of _ course through the puppets) shovs their real intentions:
 A- WITHDRAWAL OF TROOPS
                               i
 They vithdrev some units vith a fanfare but choose the ones vhich vere un-useable against the Mujahideen and vas not folloved by further similar steps. This partial vithdraval did not have any effect on the var vhich is escalating each year.
 B- CEASE FIRE
 The Cease fire vas announced but never observed by the Soviet or their puppets. Mujahideen rejected the cease fire because it vas not part of a vhole operation of bringing back peace and vithdraval of the Soviet forces from Afghanistan. Soviets vented to shov that they vented peace and Mujahideen vere var mongers. Vhile the thief vas still in the house the vise person knev that cease fire vas neaningless. Soviet designs vas foiled by the united position of the Mujahideen inside the country and in the refugee camps but could create some questions in the minds of some of those vho may accept propaganda offered under the label of peace.
 C- NATIONAL RECONCILIATION
                                                      •
 This term does not have a real meaning in the context of Afghan var because the conflict is not betveen different parts of the Afghan nation. The Soviet invaders are in one side and Afghan nation in the other. Soviets vent to say that puppets are part of nation but seven years of occupation could not give them such a status. Quisling could not become part of the Norwegian nation and vas killed and so is the position of the puppets in Afghanistan.
 The attempts of the Soviets and their puppet under the name of national reconciliation has not earned them any merit . Though the regime claims that a large number of refugees have returned home and a large number of armed men have laid dovn their arms, facts shov quite the opposite of that. Refugees continue to flov to the neighboring countries and soldiers defect in great numbers.
 The regime has promised aid for the returning refugees, but the response from the refugee population has been negative. Regime has intensified its propaganda by accusing Pakistan for creating problems on the vay of those refugees vho vanted to return to Afghanistan and complained to the UN. But refused to accept the Pakistan offer for investigation by UNHCR teams because there is not an element of truth in the claims of the regime and Soviets.
 About the armed groups, a fev grpups vho had already had been planted by KHAD may have joined the regime after the announcement of the National Reconciliation, but their number is very small. What the regime claims is absolute exaggeration.
o f