AFGHANews Vol 8, Na 17, September 1, 1992, page ©
Dear editor.
Please accept our warm congratulations on sending us your first edition from Islamic and free Kabul.
I hope that you will continue to send AFGHANews to us. Please keep us advised on the development of an Islamic banking system in Afghanistan.
Once again, we pray for the continued success of Afghan Muslims in establishing a flourishing Islamic state. May Allah guide you all.
Abdulkader California - USA
/
Dear editor,
AFGHANews and other Mujahideen publications played an important role in the victory of Afghan people. I hope that publications of the new Islamic government in Afghanistan will play a constructive role in the future. We have received the 10th and 11th issues of AFGHANews published in Kabul.
Eng. F. Umar Jami'at representative Delhi - India '
Dear editor,
I congratulate you on transfer of the office of AFGHANews from Peshawar to Kabul and wish your success. I was happy to receive my favorite publication from Afghanistan. I always duplicate AFGHANews and distribute it among Afghans in Canada and the United States.
I distributed the two last issues in great number to inform the people about the true situation in Afghanistan because some people have waged a propaganda war to defame the Islamic government in Kabul.
AbdUl Karim Safi Chairman of Afghan Association of British Columbia Canada
Dear editor, .
Thank you so much for sending me your admirable journal! It is with great joy and relief I notice that you have now been able to move your editorial office to Kabul. I wish you all success in your important work for the development of an independent and democratic Afghanistan.
Your journal always struck me as
being remarkably balanced and outspoken for a party publication. I hope that you will be able to continue and strengthen this tradition in the new situation, when your party is taking a great part of the responsibility of shaping a new Afghanistan. Furthermore, I hope that other journals and newspapers, representing other groups and interests, will contribute to a truly pluralistic public debate on the many burning issues that face your country. It is my conviction that open discussion, also of sensitive matters, guarantees the vitality of any society.
With best wishes and kindest regards,
Youfs sincerely
Prof. Bo Utas	x
Upsala University
Sweden
Dear editor,
I was delighted to receive AFGHANews from Kabul. It is really jolly good that you are there again. I do appreciate your sending me the news each fortnight.
My very best wishes,
Juliet
London- U.K.
Dear editor.
We, the students of Dhaka Medical College, have organized a Study circle. We want to read your publication regularly. Please continue to send us AFGHANews.
Sincerely yours,
G;M.K. Sadi Dhaka- Bangladesh.
Diear editor,
I congratulate all the Mujahideen on the occasion of their grand victory and pray to Almighty Allah to save the Islamic revolution which was achieved by the great sacrifices of the Afghan nation.
Some elements who have lost ‘he chance of becoming rulers get together here and speak against the Mujahideen and the national unity of Afghanistan. I am sure their efforts will lead nowhere.
I am sending a poem (in Persian) to be published in of the publications of the Mujahideen.
Abdul Hay Shabgeer Geneva - Switzerland.
l|||||!l!!ii||||:||ireier^'j	te?-
j Grigoriari-;cqjmiriandeSr: of the former • Rephbtic’s aimed forces as
:®®§1
:S^ditar-1^||^^ncy,' ■
. 56,' was
deputy commander of the Chief of Staff of the Soviet , land forces in
0$	:sby jet; -army in
start pMradbih of a local Pustu daily is presently published
in die cbmpany of: Afghanistan’s Information | Minister, | Siddique ;£hakaii to finalize preparations for
i mi
illllll ...	•.
HI Jgibggt Islam! iof Pakisteii hai : froni|fehawar: ;• develop
Merits in Afghanistan,
|||;: i •;A' 'Jamaaf-;«mirice said march would be undertaken in the near f|§: The caravaii: was t&lieave on August 12 a(rid^:	jtarrr arai -Qazi
Jalalabad;	111
; The governor of Indian-occupied Kashmir has contradicted the statement of the Indian home minister that ' Afghan Mujahideen were fighting in Kashmir,	- ,
I In an interview to the Sunday Observer, Governor Saxena categorically said that the idea of Afghan Mujahideen aiding the Kashmiri separatists was "incorrect and merely a rumor,”
jfeff -Is If!## :|i;
; - ;lrari and Afghanistan oh-August 4? signed £ protocol to cooperate in television programs. The document was signed by Mr. Tabeshian for the
Islamic v .**: • Bepbblic .* *. of >v..: ••. . ban