-------AFGHANews	Vol	5,	No	14,	July	15,1989, page 0
Gromyko dies
Andrei Gromyko, who served as the the Soviet foreign minister for 30 years, died at the age of 79 in Moscow on July 1.
Gromyko, who started his carrier during the time of Stalin had participated in the discussions which led to the signing of Hiteler-Stalin treaty of 19(39. He shaped Soviet foreign policy during the rule of Krushchev and Brezhnev.
In 1956 he became a member of Politburo and one year later was appointed foreign minister of the Soviet Union. The aggressive Soviet policy of spreading communism in Middle East and Latin America and protecting the dictatorial system in Eastern Europe
Moreover, because of the enemy's military superiority, overcoming it in an open war was deemed impossible. Thus, the argument went, guerrilla warfare would be preferable in such circumstances.
The majority, on the other hand, argued that failing to incite a general uprising would give time to the enemy to firm its base, win more members, recruit more youth into military service, and employ more spies.
What encouraged those who favored a general uprising was the news from inside Afghanistan which showed the readiness of all the people-government officials, military officers, and the general public-to raise against the puppet government. The news about the government’s distribution of arms among the PDPA members also strengthened the argument that we should have moved fast
We had a separate set of meetings among those who worked with Jabha. Participants of those meetings had the duty to submit information about uprisings and military activities in various parts of the country to the leadership. For that purpose, committees consisting of the people of different provinces were formed in order to design military plans for the respective provinces. In the meantime, the Executive Council of the Jabha had regular and fervent meetings.
The writer served as the secretary of Jabha and was a member of its Executive Council. Our discussions and activities focussed on the following:
(1)	Organizing Jabha offices— especially the military committee.
(2)	Contacting Arab countries to
was evolved under Gromyko.
He played a key role in the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 and the Afghanistan invasion of 1979.
For Afghans Gromyko was not an ordinary man. He and his shaky boss, Brezhnev, started a fire in Afghanistan which burned about a million and is still burning.
The Present Soviet leadership gives the impression that it has distanced itself from the foreign policy which Gromyko evolved. Since the expan tionistdreams of the Soviet empire have not changed, Gromyko's tactics will be needed by Soviet leaders with some minor changes.
gain their support for the cause and to collect financial donations.
(3)	Contacting the members of Jabha abroad and assigning them to collect donations and gain governments' support for our cause.
(4)	Preparation of a flag and motto.
(5)	Procurement of arms and ammunitions.
(6)	Organizing Jihad activities inside Afghanistan.
(7)	Coordinating the activities of Jabha and Jami'al Islami in Peshawar.
Notes. T. Mawlawi Mohammad Yunus Khatis broke off Hezb Islami when Hezb and Jami'al had formed a unity. Later, his faction emerged as an independent party with the same name of Hezb Islami.
2.	When Sayed Ahmad Gailani came to Pakistan as a refugee, different parties tried in vain to enlist him. Finally Mawlawi Mohammadi won him over by appointing him as Amir (leader) of Harakat Inqlab Islami. It die not last long, however/Soon Gailani formed his own party called Mahaz Milli Islami (National Islamic Front and Mawlawi Nabi remained the leader ofHarakaL
3.	When Jami'at Islami left Jabha, the latter emerged as a separate independent party. Thus, the number of Mujahideen organizations reached six:
Jami'at Islami Afghanistan, Hezb Islami Afghanistan under the leadership of Hikmatyar, Hezb Islami Afghanistan under the leadership of Mawlawi Khalis, Harakat Inqlab Islami Afghanistan Jabha Nejat Milli Afghanistan and Mahaz Milli Islami Afghanistan.
Regime pilots, diplomat defect
Two regime helicopters were brought^ to Quetta and one jet to Peshawar by pilots seeking asylum. The second secretary of the regime embassy in Islamabad has joined the Mujahideen.
Hie three incidents happened within a few days. The pilots who have brought their families with them have sought asylum from Pakistani authorities.
According to the pilot, the radar installations of Kandahar airport were destroyed by the Mujahideen attack of June 29. This enabled them to change the direction of their flight without being detected by the regime fences in Kandahar.
Ai^iinejetlaDded in Peshawar on July 6. The plane, a SU-22 jet, was on a bombing mission in Jalalabad front when it entered Pakistan with die purpose of seeking asylum.
The Pilot, Captain Jan Mohammad, said that he flew from Bagram air base to bomb Mujahideen portions in Jalalabad front He made use of the opportunity to fly to Pakistan to join the Mujahideen.
A regime diplomat, Abdul Wakeel Bahramand, defected to the Mujahideen on July 6. He was a second secretary at the regime embassy in Islamabad.
Tehran-Moscow close ties
From page (8)
each other affairs. These beautiful words have been used by Soviets as a cover for aggression and they are still using them in their interference in Afghanistan.
We Afghans have patiently listened to the warning from our Iranian brothers about the danger of western influence in the political and social system of Afghanistan. We expect them to pay attention to Afghans warnings about the danger of Soviet imperialism; Afghans know die Soviets better than any other nation in the world.
Iran must be careful about a system which defies the existence of Goc and has a record of tyranny at home and aggression abroad.
Yaqoub Khan visits Tehran Pakistan foreign minister, Sahibzada Yaqoub Khan, discussed Afghan situation with Iranian leaders when he arrived in Tehran on a one-day visit on July 1.
The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
From Page (6)