AFGHANews
Vol 5, * No 1, January 1,1989, page 2
N
called Kor-i-Mali.
News
From the battlefields
v - — —
Kabul province
Kabul-Jalalabad road has been blocked by the Mujahideenfrom Jami'at since December 1 and the repeated attempts by the communist forces to open the road has failed.
An attack to open the road was repulsed after the enemy lost two tanks on December 18.
Kabul-Jalalabad road was blocked by the Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Mohammad Anwer on December 1.
Until December 20, the enemy had lost 25 tanks and eight trucks. In Twenty days of fighting 80 enemy soldiers were killed and 200 others were captured. The Mujahideen lost five men and 25 Mujahideen were Injured.
On December 23, three tanks and four trucks of the enemy were set on fire in Tangi-Abraishomi. Twelve enemy soldiers were killed in the incident and the Mujahideen captured two Kalashinkov rifles.
Six police men were killed and nine were injured when the Mujahideen fired ground-to-ground rockets on their positions in Soroobi district. Two Mujahideen sustained injuries.
When a group of enemy helicopters were trying to take supplies to the besieged city of Jalalabad, they come under the Mujahideen's attack. The helicopters were flying under the cover of darkness at a low altitude. One of them was hit by an RPG-7 rocket and fell in Tangi Abraishomi.
On the same day two tanks and one truck of the enemy were hit by Milan rockets fired by the Mujahideen.
Takhar province
The Mujahideen captured the stronghold of the Setami Milli (National Depression Party) faction near Taleqan, the provincial capital of Takhar on December 23.
The attack which was launched jointly by the Mujahideen from Jami'at, Harakat-e-lnqilab, Hezb Islami (Khalis group) started at 6 a.m and by the nightfall the stronghold of enemy situated in Qazaq came under control of the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen lost ten men but the enemy casualty was much heavy. In the afternoon of the same day the Mujahideen from Hezb Islami (Hekmatyar group) also participated in the operation. .
The enemy force, which is estimated at 400, is besieged in Bagh-e-Zakhira near Taleqan. The operation was launched under the command of Dr. Sayed Husain, a member of the Supervisory Council of the North.
Setam Milli is a faction of the communist party which separated from the People Democratic Party long time ago. This faction got influence in the North by emphasizing the rights of non-pushtoon nationalities. During Daud's time the party split into two parts and radical faction head by Bahruddin Baais was responsible for killing the US Ambassador, Mr. Dubs in 1978.
This faction also launched an armed attack against the Taraki regime in Badakhshan in 1978 but were defeated. The party adopted a flexible tactic. Where and when it was possible, its members organized fronts and posed as Mujahideen. A great number of them also started to cooperate with regime and the Soviets. Soviets gave the party a friendly hand. In the Northern provinces this parly provided most of the officials and the militia men for the defense of the cities and towns controlled by the regime.
Due to differences between the Mujahideen, this party not only survived in Takhar but started to pose a serious threat to the Mujahideen. When Taleqan, the provincial capital of Takhar, was liberated some of the government forces were protected by one of the the commanders of Setam Mili,
When the Soviets allowed other communist factions to have political activities, this party re-arganized itself under the name of SAZA (Revolutionary Organization of the Toilers of Afghanistan). Its leader is Bashir Baghlani an original settler from central Ask and a reliable man of the Soviets.
In the past few months this party had sent most of its educated members to the North to participate in political and organizational activities. The fall of the stronghold of Setam Milli is a severe blow on the Soviet design to create a strong puppet party along its border with Afghanistan.
Badakhshan province
The enemy attack to capture Baharak sub-district was foiled by the Mujahideen from Jami'at on December 11, Sayed Najmuddin Said.
According to Sayed Najmuddin, the commander of Jami'at in the area, the Soviet planes bomb Wardooj valley from 3 to 6 times day and night
Baharak garrison was captured by the Mujahideen two months ago.
About 700 soldiers and militiamen of the enemy were captured in the operation.
Wardooj is a narrow valley connecting Baharak to the border town of Eshkashim. This valley was used by the Soviets to invade Badakhshan and bring supplies and troops.
Herat province
To prevent the Mujahideen from launching attacks on the anniversary of Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, the Soviet forces have laid a siege around the city of Herat since December 13. Fighting has taken place in Houz-e-Karbas, 3 kilometers west of the city. The enemy casualties were not immediately known.Two Mujahideen were injured.
-Report of low intensity fighting from different parts of Herat province indicates a standstill situation in the province.
East of the city of Herat was attacked by communist forces on December 6, as a result of which one Mujahid and several civilians were killed.
The Mujahideen attacked an enemy convoy on Herat-Torghondi Road on December 4 as a result of which one
Turn to page (4 )