Vol 5, No 9	May	1,1989
Soviet Embassy attacked
Soviet Union threatens Mujahideen of retaliatory attacks
Ismail Khan target of USSR disinformation
The Jami'at leader has rejected press reports about a deal between Commander Ismail Khan of Herat and the puppet regime in Kabul.
Prof. Rabbam told Afghanews that the reports were baseless and fabricated by the Soviets to defame a famous commander of the Mujahideen.
Prof. Rabbam said that those rumors had been spread for some rime and their source was Moscow.
He said that the Kabul regime has approached almost all the commanders belonging to different parties in the resistance for negotiations but have been rejected by the Mujahideen.
Prof. Rabbani said that the communist regime is weak. How could a famous Mujahideen commander such as Ismail Khan be ready to deal with a weak enemy?
The Far Eastern Economic Review, published in Hongkong, had written that Ismail Khan had agreed to join the regime and the Kabul regime would appoint him the Governor of Herat
Ismail Khan is one of the famous commanders of the Mujahideen who have fought the Soviets and the local communists since 1$79.
Soviets spread similar rumors about Ismail Khan before they withdrew their troops from Afghanistan, which proved to be wrong.
Rumors nbout important commanders like Ismail Khan and Masood are spread to create doubts about them in the minds of Afghans. The aim of such propaganda is to divide Afghans.
Division among the resistance is the last hope of the Soviets and their friends in Afghanistan.
Ismail Khan has been described as classic hero of the Afghan war by a foreign journalist
A ground-to-ground rocket hit the Soviet Embassy in Kabul on April 20 but caused no casualties.
A spokesman of the Soviet foreign ministry warned the Mujahideen of retaliation.
One of the Soviet Officials in the embassy said to the reporters that the rocket was fired from the hill where some days before fighting took place between the regime forces and fighters belonging to Ahmad Shah Masood.
Two hundred and fifty Soviets live in the Soviet Embassy in Kabul
A Soviet official in the Soviet Embassy in Kabul has told a New York Times reporter that the Soviet Union has decided to give more sophisticated weapons to the Kabul regime to defend itself against the Mujahideen.
The Soviet Union gave Mig-27 jets, BM-27 rocket launchers and Scud missiles to the regime just before com-
Regime admits heavy losses
More than 36,000 members of the Afghan ruling party have been killed fighting the Mujahideen guerrillas seeking the overthrow of the Kabul government, the party newspaper said on Ihesday.
The daily Payam (message) organ of the People’s Democratic Party of Afghanistan, said die deaths had all occurred since a communist coup established a marxist government in Afghanistan in 1978.
plerion of their troop withdrawal.
Weapons to the regime are mainly airlifted because the Salang highway which connects the Soviet border to Kabul is risky.
Some Mujahideen sources have shown concern about die possible introduction of chemical weapons by the communist regime. The regime possesses chemical weapons and tge Soviets will give them if they feel die need for their use.
The only preventive factor in employing chemical weapons is the international reaction against its use. But a desperate regime may find world reaction less important than its immediate concern for survival
Soviet and regime medias accuse the Western countries of giving chemical weapons to the Mujahideen. This could be an attempt to pave the ground for its use against the Mujahideen.
Soviet officials warning to the Mujahideen must be taken seriously. In the past they have made use of small incidents to launch major attacks against the innocent people. The Salang massacre in January is an example.
Another danger must not be underestimated. That is the cunning nature of the puppet regime in inciting the Soviets to launch retaliatory attacks against the Mujahideen. Regime agents can fire a few rockets on the Soviet embassy in Kabul or into the Soviet territory and blame the Mujahideen for it This way they could involve die Soviets in direct fighting against the Mujahideen.
In 1987 a few rockets fired by KHAD agents into the Soviet Union provoked a big offensive in which hundreds of innocent people in Kunduz were killed. If there are a retaliatory attacks against the Mujahideen, it will be in the form of carpet-bombing of the villages and towns causing a lot of casualties among the civilians.