VOL. II NO. 4
MEWS
                  Jamiftt i-tslami Afghanistan Post Box No 264, G PO Peshawar—Pakistan
                            FOOD_^9S--iIJ.,§i2§
    In order to live one needs to eat food. Shortage of food and famine threaten Afghan nation and nay cause further displacement of the population.
    Unlike Africa, shortage of food and signs of famine in Afghanistan has been caused directly by tfye Soviet Union. The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1975 caused a nationwide resistance and led to the expansion of military operations all over Afghanistan. When the Soviets discovered the close link between the people and the resistance they adopted the inhuman scorched-earth policy.
    The purpose of this is to force the people of Afghanistan to surrender to the invaders or leave the country. This has led to the displacement of more than four million people to the neighbouring countries and two million inside the country.
    At the begining of the war people gave materials support to the Mujahideen but as time passed they become poorer and poorer and many have lost all they had. The resistance which depends on the people faces the problem of talcing care of those who lost every thing. The presence of them is necessary for the continuation of an effective resistance. These brave men, women and children like to stay in their country and struggle for its freedom.
    But to be able to live they need to eat food, they can not cultivate the land the way they were doing in the past. The oxen have been killed, seed is burnt and fertiliser is not available. When they do manage to cultivate, if an offensive began, enemy Jets and gunships flyover and set the harvest on fire.
    To relieve their difficulties and enable to stay in their country they need external support.
    In Afghanistan there are areas which are not suffering as much as others and which can grow food to feed the neighbouring hard-hit areas. All provide
 the Soviets food and other essential commodities for the towns under their control and the Mujahideen and people in the liberated area are
 able to buy food from the market.
AFGHAN