AFGHANews Vol5, No21, November 1,1989, page©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Mullah Peiram Qul
Mullah Peiram Qul, a horse-rider and the son of a hard-working Uzbak farmer, was born 27 years ago in a beautiful village called Hazar Sumuch in Rustaq district of Takhar province.
His father, Artaab Adeen Qul, was a stubborn horse rider too. "He used to talk about his horse much more than anything else,” said Ebrahim, Peiram Qul's representative in Peshawar.
Peiram Qul was sent by his father to the primary school in the village when he was six years old. His father wanted his son to learn Islamic theology and became a religious scholar.
After completing the primary school, Peiram Qul attended madrasa in the Rustaq district "He was keen in his studies. His father wanted him to be a hard-working student," said the representative.
Peiram Qul was still studying at iis madrasa when the communists took power in Kabul. "He left his studies and started to do underground work against the Soviets and the local communists in Rustaq. The first person who led him into battle was Omar Shaheed," Ebrahim recalled.
Mullah Peiram Qul was one of the first thirty people in his area who formed a group under Jami'at Islami banner. In the beginning they bought some shotguns. Later they drew more and more people to their group. The people encouraged them and gave them arms and ammunition.
In January 1979, Peiram Qul and his group launched their first attack against the Rustaq district headquarters With few casualties, they were able to inflict heavy losses on the enemy. They captured arms and ammunition,, including some Kalashnikov assault rifles. After this operation Peiram Qul and his group established their first base in the Ail Shar mountains, close to Rustaq.
Peiram Qul's area of operation was strategically important It was just 30 kilometers from the Soviet border. The long range artillery fired from the Soviet Union could hit his base, and Soviet ground forces could reach his base in an hour's time. Peiram Qul needed to be alert and strong to survive the Soviets' onslaughts during the ten years of occupation.
Commander Peiram Qul expanded his operations and established more bases in Baishkand, Qadaq and Deewal Tang, in different parts of Rustaq
district
His forces had to deal with the local militia forces headed by Abdul Rahim, Abdul Rashid Tatar, Ghulam Sakhi, and Abdul Samad, known as Samadov. The militias were the backbone of the communist regime's establishment in the area. Since militias have committed a lot of crimes against the people, they fight to death. They are experienced fighters, are well-equipped and know the terrain.
The militia posts around the city, and the road going to the the district garrison were the main targets of Mullah Peiram Qul's attacks.
Peiram Qul gave the account of one his battles as follows: "It was May 13, 1978 at 4 a.m that the enemy attacked die Mujahideen base at Toot village. For four hoars the planes bombed the area. Everywhere there was fire. One could see nothing but fire. Many, civilians were either killed or wounded. Later on the enemy ground forces arrived. We fought hand to hand . Thank God that the Mujahideen inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. We lost two group commanders and 12 Mujahideen, but the Russian lost more than 113 men."
From January to March 1988, the Mujahideen were able to capture all the posts and the district garrison in Rustaq, which resulted in the total liberation of the district
Peiram Qul joined the Supervisory Council last year. His association with council has helped him to organize his men better.
He is interested in riding and hunting. He is respected by his Mujahideen and local people. "When you see him be looks like a soft-spoken teacher who loves his students," said Ebrahim.
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
jjj >4;
i	Jjj	jS-i
The first day you meet, you are friends.
The next day you meet, you are .brothers.
Meaning: Friendship grows into brotherhood.
-ijG J>» «f
There is a way from heart to heart.
Meaning: Love finds a way to another's hear.
m
J— L ^ wjj
■ -- J1*	SjS	^
j-»
A real friend is one who takes the hand of his friend in times of distress and helplessness.
Meaning: A friend in need is a friend indeed.
000