AFGIlANe\vs Vol8, No 18 & 19, October 1, 1992, page ©
Afghans celebrate Prophet's birthday
Five new ministers
The birthday * of the Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) was celebrated on September 10 by holding meetings and distributing alms to the poor all over Afghanistan. Speakers threw light on the life of the prophet and drew the attention of Muslims towards their responsibility in regard to the implementation of Islamic Sharia in their private and public lives. Afghan TV and radio broadcasted special programs to mark the occasion.
A grand meeting was held in the mosque of thi Presidential Palace in which President Rabbani was the main speaker.
He said that Islam
saved human beings from		
the path of, destruction and	l	
showed them the way for	kill	1
eternal salvation.	iflj	1 1 1 1« 1 l«l
Prof. Rabbani also touched on the current issues	rfil	
facing the government and the	i»«i	1 'll
people of Afghanistan.	aji	1 1
About security measures	iil>	1
implemented by the Defense Ministry, he said that the public hanging or those found .guilty of. murder, robbery and rape, was a necessary measure to check the wave of crime. Dismissing criticism of the public hangings in some Western circles and by a few Afghans living in exile, he said that the Islamic government would not apologize for dealing with criminals under Islamic law.
The opposition of some Afghans who consider themselves to be Muslims was deplorable, because they opposed implementation of . Islamic1 Sharia in the country, he said.
He said that some elements- even tried to describe the- punishment of criminals as an hostile ac'l against the people of some regions. Such considerations were never involved in the decision of the judicial authorities, he said.
He added that those punished were committing crimes in the garb of the Mujahideen and were captured red-handed. The Islamic government will continue to punish such criminals under Lhc Islamic law in the future, he said.
Criticizing those who spread ethnic and linguistic, haired among the
people, he- said.Islam treats people be-! longing to different colors and races j equally. Those who crcaLc discord j among people under the name of dc- i fending the rights of Push tuns, Tajiks, j Hazaras or Uzbeks, violates Islamic , law, he.added,. '	J
Prof. Rabbani said:	"There	arc
some people who call war against Muslims 'Jehad1. While Allah directs us to be kind to Muslims,.they wage war against them. There is no good reason for waging war after the victory of Lhc Islamic revolution and. die establishment of the Islamic government." , Criticizing the rocket attacks on hospild/s and the TV and radio stations, he said when these institutions were used by the communists, they were not attacked. When the hospitals began to treat or-dinary Afghans and 1{ Mujahideen, and TV and radio began to broadcast Islamic pro-,1 grams, they became a target of U rockpt attacks, he said, j This was painful because such attacks were launched by those who called themselves Mujahideen, he added.
President Rabbani said the establishment of the Islamic government m Kabul was a great achievement but it was facing tremendous challenges. "But we are hopeful to win-peace in the country," he said.
I le said one should not forget the pliglu of ordinary people in Kabul who lost their relatives and. beepme homeless as a result of merciless rocket attacks. We should join hands lo help these people, he added.
He encouraged the people to take interest in the affairs of the country because Islam asked all Muslims to discharge their duties towards their society.
Describing the fighting after the establishment of Lhc Islamic government as an unlslamic act, he asked all those fighting against the Islamic government - Afghans, Arabs and nationals of other countries - to lay down their arms. If they failed to‘do so, the people of Afghanistan would deal wiLh them with force, he warned.
President Rabbani assured the cili- I zens of Kabul lhal the government, was working hard to provide enough food, j and fuel for the people during coming i winter:
Hezb Wahdat, a Shia Mujahideen party, joined the government after it was given two ministerial posts in the cabinet.
Hezb Wahdat has introduced Abdul Wahid Sarabi as the Minister of Commerce and Mohammad Yaqoub Lali as the Minister of Mines and .Industry.
Prof. Mujaddidi had also given the Ministry of State Security to this party, but the decision was opposed by other parties. Prof. Rabbani downgraded the National Security and brought it under direct control of the president.
Hezb Wahdat had introduced a representative to the Leadership Council some months ago.
The decision of Hezb Wahdat to join the government has broadened Lhc •government's base and will help to bring further security lo the capital.
A leader of Wahdat party accompanied Prof. Rabbani on his official visit to Teheran and Islamabad.
General Sayycd Husain, a member of Hezb Wahdat, was appointed deputy of defense minister.
Two Ministers from the Uz.bak ethnic group also were inducted into the cabinet. Mawlawi Ahmad Nazar was appointed the Minister of Social Affairs and Sayycd Ishaq G.awhar, the Minister of Rural Development.
Dr. Barekzay, a member of Khalis group, replaced Dr. Najihullah Mujaddidi as the Minister of Health. Mujaddidi had resigned from the post in protest to what he called interference from above.
Sarabi'and Lali served as ministers during the previous regimes.' Hezb Wahdat says that they have been appointed because of their experiences;
Some Mujahideen -parties have protested to the induction-of two ministers , of the previous regime to the cabinet.
Harakal Inqilab of Mohainiriadi has been vociferously oppose to the appointment of Sarabi as Minister of Commerce because he replaced Shaba-z Ahmadzai, a member of that party, who remained outside the country during the rocket attacks and alter the ceasefire.