AFGHANews Vol7, No 19, October 1,1991, page 0
Vho is who in the Mujahideen
Mullah
Mullah Naqibullah is the chief commander of Jami'at Islami in Kandahar who leads several thousands of Mujahideen in many districts of that province. He has been very active in fighting against the Soviets and the Kabul regime. He is member of the council of commanders in Kandahar.
Naqibullah's home rase is Arghandab from where he attacks the enemy bases in and around the city of Kandahar.	His
Mujahideen also operate in other districts of province.
From 1984-1990, ie has launched many big and small attacks.
Here are the account of some of his operations:
In the Summer of 1987, the Soviets and regime troops attacked his rase with hundred of tanks and armored cars. Naqibullah repulsed the attack after fighting for 34 days. The xxiies of many dead Soviet soldiers and regime generals had remained in the battlefield. The Soviets asked Naqibullah to exchange the dead bodies with the Mujahideen prisoners of war. He accepted their offer. Three of his junior commanders were released in exchanged with remains of the enemy soldiers and officers.
In 1988, Naqibullah attacked the regime base near Kandahar Silo. The Mujahideen captured the base after 20 days of fighting during which about 200 Mujahideen were either killed or wounded. The Mujahideen seized four tanks and a large quantity of other arms and ammunition.
In 1990, Naqibullah's Mujahideen participated in the fall of Tain Koot, the capital of Uruzgan Province.
Mullah Naqibullah joined Jami'at Islami Afghanistan in 1982 and one year lata was appointed the chief commander of Jami'at in Kandahar. He was earlier affiliated to Mujaddidi's party.
Naqibullah was serving in the army of President Daud in Bala Hisar erf Kabul when the communist took power through a coup in 1978. In the late summer of the same year, he took part in an abortive mutiny against the communist regime. Some of his friends woe killed but he managed to go underground and secretly returned to Kandahar.
He“began to recruit people for Jehad in Arghandab and prepare them for armed conflict.
. At the start he used to ambush regime convoys going from Kandahar to Herat. As the number of his men increased and he received more weapons, he began to launch attacks against the Soviet and regime bases all over Kandahr.
Being a religious scholar , he has opened Madrasas in many villages in	Arghandab
and Khakraiz districts. In erne	of these
Madrasas in Khakraiz, more than 350 student are taiught by famous Ulamas from Kandahar. He has established a hospital in Char Qala of Arghandab and some clinics in other areas of Kandahar. He has always tried to get assistance to his people from relief organizations based in Pakistan. He has also treated die visiting journalists with Afghan traditional hospitality. His handsome face and sense of humor provoke sympathy of the visitor.
Naqibullah takes part in fighting himself and he is a good marksman. His marksmanship helped him to destroy the first regime tank in Kandahar with a rocket in 1979. He is a courageous person who has been wounded four time in fighting against the enemy.
He has good relations with other Mujahideen parties, except with Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar. The tension between the two groups has led, at least in two occasions, to armed conflict He took part in the commanders meeting in Saghar, Herat, organized by Ismail Khan, He has also established friendly relations with Masood. Mullah Naqibullah participated in a conference in France some years to represent Jami'at He impressed his audience.
He was bom 36 years ago in a Pashtoon family of Alkozai tribe in Char Qala village of Arghandab District His father. Mullah Abdul Sattar, was a religious scholar. His father owned land and to work on it.
Mullah Naqibullah finished the primary school in Arghandab. He first learned the Islamic subjects from his father and later from his elder brother, Mawlawi Hayatullah. He is married and has three children. His brother was martyid some months ago.
Iranian Foreign Minister' All Akbar Velayati has welcomed Soviet decision to halt arms shipment to the Kabul regime, AFP reported.
•••
regime, has said dial establishra of fundamentalist governments
USSfc, Turkey and Israel This was the first tune that Najib has shown concern about the security qf the Jewish Stale. In the past, he championed the Palestinians' cause and had established close relations with the
ramify members tn a support fur national r
I
The citizenship of the former king and Ws family members
in 1978.
tyar have held man consulate their anger to an article in an ig die role of
in an
toriai, had said that- Hikmatyar had inflicted more harm on Jehad than the

Dr. Flex Ermacota, the UN re-porter on hnmaa ri^ts situation in Afghanistan, has flown to Kabul to
; he
Pakistan where' ho mt with the eq leaders, refugees and released fiom Kafeul jaifs. has o mandate by the UN 0 prepare a yearly report, on human
Dr, Ismail, a Hezb Islami (Hiknuty,
Htianatyftr praised Df. Ismail services to Jehad and con