----------------AFGHANews Vol 5, No 14, July 15, 1989, page ©
Two million Muslims perform
Haj this year
About two million Muslim performed haj this year and hundreds of millions celebrated Eid-ul-Adha throughout the world.
Haj is one of the five pillars of the Islamic faith. Haj is visiting special places in the Holy land of Mecca at a specific time (haj season) to perform special rituals. Every adult and healthy Muslim who has financial ability has to perform haj once in life. It is good to repeat performing haj for those who can.
Haj is performed during celebration of Eid-ul-Adha. Eid-ul-Adha is celebrated in commemoration of Ibrahim’s (peace be upon him) act of sacrificing his son, Ismail (peace be upon him), when he was told so by Almighty Allah.
Allah told Ibrahim to sacrifice his young son, Ismail. It was an extraordinary command and a great test for the old father and the young son.
He and his young son moved from Mecca to Mena, a spot a few miles outside Mecca, where he was supposed to sacrifice his son by shedding his blood.
He consulted his son, Ismail, about the matter. Ismail told his father to do what he was told by Almighty Allah.
They reached the spot on the first day of Eid. Ismail's hands and feet were tied with a rope and the Ibrahim put the knife in his son's throat
Almighty Allah told Ibrahim that he succeeded in his great test. A sheep was sacrificed, instead. The incident was so great in the eyes of Allah that He ordered its celebration. Hajis do the same thing that Ibrahim did.
Haj is the biggest gathering of Muslims in the world and is repeated every year. Muslims from all races and ethnic backgrounds wearing similar clothes gather in the Holy land. It gives opportunity for Muslims to meet their brothers from the rest of the world.
This year about two million Muslims performed haj . Those who do not have the ability to celebrate the occasion in the Holy land, do it in their own towns and villages .
Eid celebration included saying special prayers and slaughtering sheep, called Qurbani. It is a religious duty of every adult Muslim to sacrifice one sheep (or goat) during Eid if he has the
financial means. The meat will be fed to the family of the person, his relatives and the poor.
Eid-ul-Adha like is a happy occasion. People get together, exchange presents, wear their best clothes and renew their friendship. They are obliged to forgive their fellow brothers for the wrong they have done to them, visit neighbors, and the sick.
In the past when there were no roads Muslims from far lands took the long journey to Mecca, which lasted several months. The Holy land has always been full of these people since Ibrahim founded Mecca and especially since Mecca was turned into the first Holy place of Muslims.
Afghanistan being a land locked and poor country has sent a limited number of hajis to the Holy land.
In the last years of the king's rule and during Daud’s time the number of Afghan hajis increased because of improved road transportation. It took about ten days of driving to reach the Holy land. It was much cheaper than flying, so a large number of-people-travelled by land.
The communist coup of 1978 which was an anti-religion rebellion and the Soviet invasion of 1979 shattered such trips to the Holy land. The number of hajis was reduced from 20,000 to 2000.
About five million Afghans became refugees in Pakistan and Iran. Refugees started to make use of the fa-
cilities provided to them by the host countries to perform haj.
This year more than 9,000 Afghan refugees in Pakistan had applied for visas to go to haj.
Jamiat introduced 1300 hajis (of whom 80 were introduced by the Supervisory Council and came from Afghanistan for purpose of performing haj).
Our correspondent says that the Ministary of haj of the interim government was not organizing the trip. The individual parties were involved in organizing the trip for their members.
The number of hajis who perform haj through the Kabul regime is limited. This is due to the war situation and discouragement by the communist regime which considers haj a waste of time and money.
More than that, the regime is suspicious about people who go to the Holy land because Saudi Arabia is friendly to the Mujahideen and some of the hajis do not return to Afghanistan.
Afghan refugees in Iran made use of Iran's facilities to perform haj, but because of the problems between the Saudi government and Iran on the number of hajis, Iran has not sent any hajis' for two years. In 1987 about 400 hajis, mainly Iranians were killed in a clash with Saudi police when they staged a demonstration in the Holy city.
A small number of Afghan refugees living in Europe, the US and Gulf States also perform haj every year.

Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) said:
m
you -aMthf se who a
m®Iei§