AFGHANews Vol6, No 14, July 15,1990, page @

fWisdom of i
t/te sages
Who is fortunate in life ?
Riches are for the comfort of life, and not life for the accumulation of riches. I asked a holy wise man, who is fortunate, and who is unfortunate? He replied, he was fortunate who ate and sowed; and he was unfortunate, who died without having enjoyed. Pray not over that worthless wretch who performed no act of piety: who spent his whole life in amassing money, without making any use of it.
Science must serve religion
Science is to be used for the preservation of religion, and not for the acquisition of wealth. Whosoever prostituted his abstinence, reputation, and learning for gain, gathered a harvest and set it on fire.
Wisdom saves kingdom
A kingdom gains credit from wise men and religion and obtains perfection from the virtuous. Kings stand more in need of wise men, than wise men do of appointments at court. Listen O king, to my advice; for you have not a more valuable maxim, in all your archives, than this, " Entrust not your affairs to any but wise men; although public business is not the occupation of the wise."
Be moderate to friends, foes
Reveal not to a friend every secret that you possess, for how can you tell but what he may sometime or other become your enemy. Likewise inflict not on an enemy every injury in your power, for he may afterwards become your friend. The matter which you wish to preserve as a secret impart it not to any one, although he may be worthy of confidence, for no one will be so true to your secret as yourself.
It is safer to be silent, than to reveal one's secret to any one, and telling him not to mention it. O good man! stop the water at the spring head, for when it is in full stream, you cannot arrest it. You should never speak a word in secret which may not be related in every company.
AFGHAN
PROVERBS


What is a trumpeters job? To blow.
Meaning: An adviser, teacher or preacher can only instruct, it is up to the hearer to act.
u-juuJo
& b
Unless God does it, what can a doctor do?
Meaning: If God does not cure a person, a physician cannot; or, man may plant and water, but God must bring the increase.
Blood cannot be washed out with blood.
Meaning: Two wrongs do not make a right
r'lLiJ
<S>

Even the five fingers of the hand are not alike.
Meaning: All people differ; usually greatly.
There is blessing in action.
Meaning: Nothing venture, nothing win.
Help yourself, and heaven will help you.
Five Soviet planes
hiiacked in two weeks
In less than two weeks, five Soviet passenger planes have been hijacked by Soviet citizens to Finland and Sweden.
In each incident, a single person managed to' hijack a plane and after landing surrendered himself to the authorities in the country where the plane landed.