AFBHRN HEUS 001.1 It, HO.B, 15/4/ 19B7 PAGE 7
Kurdistan and Azerbaijan in 1945. and of course Einland. Poland and Austria I believe that one of your strongest assets are the Soviet Muslims As I said earlier, problems in the Soviet Muslim territories are only just beginning, and in their own vay they will be as insoluble for the Russians as those in Afghanistan. The young generation of Soviet Muslims does not anymore fear that the Russians can annihilate them as their parents did. The Afhans have shown them that resistance is possible. They are young and dynamic facing an aging and dispirited Russian population, and there are by now 60 millions of them one in five Soviets is an ethnic Muslim.
In short I think the Resistance is now in a much stronger position than the Soviets. Equal dangers face them whether they try to hand on in Afghanistan or whether they leave. Whatever happens in the long run they will loose militarily and politically. What is more because of Afghanistan, one day they will also loose Central Asia.
                                        FROM THE DIARY OF JEHAD
It was a pleasant day in late September 1985. A large number of people had got together in a garden close to a big river The village was called Malaspa in the town of Bazarak in the Panj shir valley. The people had come there to listen to the verdict of the Mujahideen's Central Judge on a murder case. It was an outdoor court with traditional simplicity. The judge, culprit and the audience were sitting on the ground Armed Mujahideen were positioned in the area for security purposes.
Two months before, one Mujahid had killed another in a minor dispute. The murderer served in jail -while being interrogated. He pleaded guilty. The judge had to announce
his verdict in public.
Everybody was silent. The judge, who was an Islamic scholar of high caliber, rose and read the verdict from the paper.
The judge said that the man had admitted the crime and according to Islamic law the relatives of the murdered person can forgive or kill him How the life of a man who killed someone was at the hand of the father of the murdered one.
Elders, religious figures, ordinary Mujahideen rose one after the other and asked for mercy. It was an emotional moment. Finally commander Masood addressed the father of the murdered person and said," The ulema and elders said what was necessary to be said. Feel free and tell us about your decision, we all will be grateful if you forgive the man because Almighty Allah loves those who forgive” The whole drama reached its peak when a trembling old man rose He said "you asked me for mercy Because our country is at war against communists, I forgive the man who killed my son" He went to the murderer and kissed his face Tears came down from the faces of every body present and all together raised their voices to shout Allah-o-Akbar (the God is great).
This shows the power of Sharia (Islamic Lav) and the people's' obedience to it It also shows how the people forget personnel grievance for the sake of the cause of freedom.
                                       EVERYTHING FAKE
As a part of their propaganda campaign, the puppets announced the release of several thousand political prisoners. However, they made it clear that Mujahideen (those who opposed the occupation of Afghanistan by the Soviets actively) would not be released.
They got publicity for the so-called release of some prisoners but as soon as they were released from Pui-i-Charkhi Jail they were put into the army to fight against their countrymen. They were not allowed to meet their families and celebrate their release. A few old people could be an exception. There are also reports that a few young people who were deceived by the propaganda of the enemy and who went to see their families in Soviet controlled areas were pressganged into the army.________