                                                   nnwnii heiis. wiL.iv, no. i, ts/z/ivoo, : pjide 3
 Une A1’C van alro ilosboyod during the fighting which lasted for 5 hours.                                                   ':
                          PARY/AN PROVINCE
 7/1/1988: Mujahiilfieri from Jand'at led by commander Enayatullah, attacked and captured 2 DRA posts in Bagram in which 6 officers including two soldiers were killed and 4 others were taken prisoner. Seven AK-47S and large quantities of ammunitions and foodstuff were also seised from the posts.
 2/1/1988: In a surprise attack against an enemy military convoy along Parwan-Jabul Saraj highway, Mujahideen destroyed 3 tanks and 2 vehicles and killed or wounded 5 Russian crews.
 According to the report, the Mujahideen suffered no casualties in the operation.
                                           QANDAIIAR PROVINCE
 11/1/1988: Five enemy militias belonging to groups of DRA militia commander Esmat surrendered with their weapons to the Mujahideen of the „   .                                                      area.
 Three days later, the onemy airforce bombarded Mazar Kohna and Arghandali district. As a result, 16 children were killed and 9 others were wounded.
 10/10/1908: Mujahideen led by commander Habibullah attacked forces of a well-known militia commander Esmat In Rubat area. As a result of the dashes between the two sides, It military trucks were burned and 16 AK-47S were seized from the enemy.
 20/1/80: Mujahideen under the command of Habibullah launched an attack on a DRA post in Qalai Kohna area and were able to capture one Dschk, one mortar, one RPG-7 and 10 AK-47S.
 According to the report, Mujahideen did not sustain any casualties in the operation.
                                             FARAII PROVINCE
 24/1/1988: Groups of Mujahideen belonging to commander Junta Khan raided an enemy military convoy in a suburb about 7 kms from the. provincial capital. In the course of fighting , 2 APCs and 2 trucks were destroyed. About 4o enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded including 2 WAD commanders, 2 tankists and one officer.
 Mujahideen captured 9 AK-47s in the operation but there was no indication about their casualties in the report.
                          TAKIIAR PRUVINCE                 - ,t
 27/1/1908: Mujahideen of Tnkhar launched a series of attacks against some DRA posts which were recently established in the area with the help of some WAD agents and a few. of their local supporters for the purpose of pmpagnting the so-called "National Reconciliation* campaign. In the lighting liio head of local WAD namely Satar Pacha was killed along with some of his followers.