AFGHANews Vol6, No 9, May 1,1990, page ©
P.OJSox 264, Peshawar- Paidssai im (0521) *1381 t' 1
% - ________________________--- " <, ? ,, \
Editorial


Soviet agents should be barred from taking part in politics
In their last meeting in Washington US and Soviet Union foriegn ministers have shown interest in the idea of solving the Afghan issue through holding general elections, but they differ over the rule of Najib in the transitional period. The AIG leaders have also discussed this option with the Government of Pakistan recently.
Jami’at supports the idea of giving the Afghan people a chance to determine their future and holding elections is one way to exercise this right. At the same time Jami'at thinks that there are many difficulties in holding general elections in Afghanistan. The continuation of war , displacement of a large number of the population within and out of the country, division of the country into liberated and regime-controlled zones and controversy over electoral constituencies are some of these problems. These factors have prevented the AIG plan of holding elections from being implemented. But, the major problem is the question of the participation of the communist regime in elections.
All the Mujahideen believe that the Kabul regime has disqualified itself from Afghan politics, because of the crimes it has committed during and after the Soviet occupation. The Mujahideen will oppose any move which will give legitimacy to the Kabul regime. The participation of the Kabul regime in elections will give it legitimacy, obscure Soviets crimes committed against Afghans and pave the way for continued Soviet interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan.
Soviets propose Nicaraguan and Namibian examples as a model for the solution of Afghan problem. But the communist regime in Kabul which is the product of the 1979 Soviet invasion cannot be compared to any existing governments in the world. This regime is responsible for killing one million of its own people and has been collaborating with Soviet invaders. Its leader was the head of KHAD, a terrorist organization, and the regime has come to power with the help of the Red Army, More than that it exercises little control over the people and territory of Afghanistan.
This regime could not even be compared with the Nazis in Germany because they killed outsiders and the Kabul regime kills its own people.
Afghans who have fought for more than a decade under the banner of Islam will not accept the participation of the Godless communists in any political process.
Therefore; before holding any election the power must be transferred to a representative government and the PDPA should not be allowed to contest the elections.
A broad-based AIG could play a transitional role. The other option is the creation of a representative council from the representatives of each party, national and religious personalities and field commanders. The representatives of the old regime and good Muslims from the areas presently controlled by the Kabul regime can be included in the council. This council should have executive, as well as law-making power to be able to take care of law and order and hold general elections for a permanent body.
The positive attitude of the Soviets is very important for any plan to be successful. The Soviet Union; mi important power and a neighbor of Afghanistan, is responsible for the Afghan tragedy. Its military and financial support has enabled the Kabul regime to survive so far. While the Soviet Union talks about the right of Afghans to determine their future; by giving massive military and financial support to the Kabul regime it prevents the Afghan people from determining their future. Gorbachev calls the 1979 invasion of Afghanistan illegal but defends the product of that invasion. The tragedy of Afghanistan will continue as long as the Soviets "new thinking" has not affected their Afghan policy.
Worry about the security of their Southern border might be the main reason for contradiction in Soviet's Afghan policy. This issue could be addressed through negotiations with the Mujahideen. An unstable Afghanistan could be a source of worry to its neighbors. Stability will not return to Afghanistan with the presence of the Kabul regime.
Despite past unpleasant relations with the Soviet Union, Afghans are ready to resume normal relations with that country based on mutual respect if the Soviet Union abandons its policy of interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. To show this it should stop supporting the illegitimate and unpopular regime in Kabul.
Communist block
From page (6)
Muslim who irritates a non-Muslim living in an Islamic society irritates me".
We are also a witness of significant changes in the Muslim world. The struggle of the Mujahideen in Afghanistan have had an effect in these developments. The struggle of Palestinians for liberation from Zionist occupation has intensified in a new form. In the past the Palestine resistance was divided into groups, each following alien ideologies or Arab nationalism. Out of frustration some of their leaders accepted humiliating peace terms. The struggle by unarmed women and children under the banner of Islam changed the Situation. It has given a new hope for Palestine’s liberation and has created many problems for the Zionists.
Another issue concerning the Muslim world is the mass immigration of Soviet Jews to Palestine. We are afraid that the massacre of Dir Yasin, Hifa and Jafa might be repeated by these new immigrants. The situation is leading to war which will not remain limited to Palestine. It will de-stabilize the world and harm humanity.
The struggle of Muslims in Kashmir is an important development Muslims in Kashmir have been deprived of their right for self determination by India for a long time. This is the main cause of the trouble in Kashmir. We support their just cause and advise India to give Kashmiris their right to choose their future basec on the UN resolutions. The Islamic countries should support Kashmiris in their struggle and put pressure on India to abide by the UN resolutions on the issue. India’s threat to wage a war against Pakistan will not solve Kashmir.