 ftfGtifili HEMS UOL.IU, HO. 2, 1/15/1980, P83E 5
 The memorandum asks the Soviet government to bring -ah immediate halt to the terrorist action against Pakistan The Soviets and their puppets harp launched a terroristic campaign against Pakistan, since the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, in force Pakistan tv abstain from supporting the Afghan cause
 %
 More than three million Afghan refugees are living in Pakistan. In 1987 more than 262 people lost their lives and 1,330 were injured in 2S6 incidents of bomb blasts sponsored by the Soviets
                        GENEVA PROXIMITY TALKS                                       j
                                                                                                                              I
 Geneva proximity talks have continued since 1982 Mow Mr . Cordovas, the U.N General Secretary's and Special Representative on Afghanistan, says that the next phase of the Geneva, talks will fee the last.
 This is not the first time Mr, Cordovefc has been optimistic about a quick settlement of the Afghan issue through the proximity talks, Ho expressed similar views 5 years ago, but the talks have dragged on till now.
 The UN General Assembly has instructed the General Secretary to find a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan, in which Afghan self-determination is guaranteed, Soviet troops are withdrawn, the non-aligned and Islamic status of • Afghanistan is restored, and the refugees may return to their homeland with honor
 But the present Geneva talks mainly concern the withdrawal of troops, and noninterference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. The .main question, the right of self-determination, is not cm the agenda of the talks If Pakistan and the puppet regime agree cm a time table for the withdrawal of the Soviet troops, they have not solved the problem, Many questions remain before a practical settlement can be achieved. An agreement based on the present format of Geneva talks wilt leave a regime In Kabul with whom the Resistance and the people of Afghanistan cannot compromise.
 Can the refugees return under these circumstances? The answer is no if the Communists are ia power the majority of the refugees will. refuse to return because there is no guarantee of their safety.
 The second problem which remains is the right of genuine self-determination, If this is not settled in advance , the Mujahideen must continue their fight. Knowing this, the Soviets are asking for more time than they actually need to withdraw their troops.
 In the absence of Soviet troops in Afghanistan, the Resistance is strong enough to defeat the puppet regime. What would be the Soviets' reaction in that case? Will they re-invade to save their puppets7 Or, sensing the danger, will they make excuses and suspend the withdrawal of their troops?
 The weak point of the Geneva talks is that the two principal antagonists, the Soviets and the Mujahideen, are not participating. Any talks concerning, Afghanistan without direct participation of the Mujahideen, cannot bring peace, Moreover, the present Geneva talks do not address the right to self-determination, which the UN resolutions demanded . Without this right, peace is wishful thinking
 To speak of the "final phase" of talks is over-optimistic. Soon Mr. Cordovez wili sense the difficulties ahead,
                   mas