 1 have a little experience in photography and in the past I have sent some young Afghans with simple cameras and two days of training. The pictures they sent back were so good I could not believe it was the work of these young people.
 The-second pjpoblem ,;ih .this/••wo^'i*' Tiow to circulate what they bring fidm irfside'. i know of .thousgftds of good phonographs which are locked in boxes for several years because nobody knows how to use them (except a few which are published in party papers).
 My suggestion is if simple cameras are provided with good films (cpl-oufed, black & white) and they are given to selected people from different areas, after a few hours of instruction and practice one can see the result in a few months. There will always be a need to have jirofe-ssional photographers in Afghanistan to cover the action there,.
 Among other things, the Soviets send an enormous amount of wheat to their spldiers and to meet the needs of the puppet regime. Since the Soviets do not grow sufficient wheat they buy large amounts from the United States,
 This American wheat is sent to Afghanistan and the regime, like other things, uses this wheat for political ends for example when Soviets and their puppet attack areas, after the destruction of the houses , they distribute wheat to show their concern foF the poor people of Afghanistan. As when western trucks, bought by the Soviets, were used for the transportation of the invading force in 1979, the wheat sold to them is being either consumed by the soldiers or is being used for the political purpose in the occupied Afghanistan.
 It is interesting for the American government's farmers to have a market to sell their products, but they should keep in mind that their trade is harming the Afghan nation and is serving the cause of the occupiers and their puppets.
 Indians are helping the puppet regime of Babrak in training its military personnel. In the past Mujahideen had reported the involvement of some Indian officers in operations against the Mujahideen. All this is done while 150,000 Soviet soldiers have occupied parts of Afghanistan and have been fighting for more than six years.
 Indians military involvement in Afghanistan takes place while that country is still the chairman of non-aligned countries. This act undermines all the resolutions passed by the U.N, Islamic Conference and even the organization of non-aligned countries. This is an act of enmity towards a people who are busy in an unequal war agains thfe Soviet Union. The world opinion and Indian'people should put pressure oh Kajiv's gover cnfiient to stop its actions against the Afghan nation* This type of in*-/Olvemertt ridicules the claims of India that it pexsues an independent policy and its status as the chairman of the non-aligned movement. India should stop acting as the Soviets surrogates in Afghanistan.