AFGHANews Vol 5, No 16 & 17, September 1,1989, page©
Commander Muslim's Experience in Jehad
From page (3)
were close to him. Despite all the tiredness and hunger we gathered our strength and fired on the Soviets. They took cover and the man found the time to distance himself from them.
The man was Sofi Abdul Faqir whose wife, sister, mother and children were killed by the Soviet soldiers and his 5-year old son was injured in the leg. He was carrying his wounded son on his back.
Later in the afternoon four Soviet helicopters appeared and started to circle over the place we had hidden. They dropped 16 bombs on us which exploded some meters away from us. One of our Mujahideen was wounded and I was deafened by a close explosion.
We walked all night and reached Hesarak valley. Lieutenant Shir Ahmad, a Mujahid from Hesarak and a friend of mine gave us food and shelter. We washed our clothes and started to feel better.
Tahir, a Mujahid from Dara who was captured by the Soviets and later managed to escape said that four Soviet soldiers committed suicide on the mountain top because they could not carry heavy loads at a high altitude and their commanders were rude to them.
Soviets attacked Hesarak. We crossed the mountain and reached Bolaghain (in Shemali), from there went to Kohistan and stayed a few days with Commander Shaheen.
I learned in Kohistan that my brother who was a pilot of Su-22 jet had been killed some days before when his plane crashed due to technical problems.
Divers helped us cross the Panjshir river but one of our guns fell into the river and was lost
At the other bank of the river, our group which by then numbered 30 men was ambushed by the Mujahideen from Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar group). Two of our Mujahideen were injured. They took our arms and imprisoned us. Later when they realized that we did not have any bad intentions against them, released us and returned our guns but five guns were missing.
I spent the Holy month of Ramazan in Gulbahar. My family who lived in Kabul came to see me. 1 went to Salang to meet Commander Pana. He encouraged me to go back to Parandeh because the situation there was very bad.
1 learned that Commander Abdul Wahid (who had an aritificial leg) was captured by the Soviets, 20 Mujahideen from Parandeh had defected to the enemy and two elders of Parandeh were sent by the Soviets to Parandeh to persuade the rest of the Mujahideen to surrender. The two men were captured and tried by the Mujahideen.
After returning to Parandeh we established our base in Malaspa gorge.
We resumed mining the road. We improvised mines from D-30 artillery shells. These improvised mines proved very useful. In one incident in Jangalak, three Soviet officers and 30 soldiers were killed by one of these mines.
Several enemy convoys were ambushed and destroyed. We captured food from the enemy and the morale of our group rose.
Intelligence sources reported to Masood that the enemy had lost 400 tanks and trucks during six months in the Malaspa area. I estimated the number to be 500 tanks and trucks. There are the remains of 200 tanks and trucks of the enemy in Malaspa.
I participated in the annual meeting of the Council of the North held in Khailab in winter of 1985.
Masood appointed me a teacher of the newly-formed Central Forces. Later he appointed me the commander of one of its units.
In 1986, I and Amanullah Hashimi, who was killed later, went to Fjirkharrhe Salang operation was launched
Farkhar garrison. This was ah important victory which set the stage for further victories of the SCN in the war against the enemy garrisons.
I also participated in fighting against the enemy garrison in Nahrin. I worked as the deputy of commander Pana. The Mujahideen captured part of the garrison on the first day of fighting. From 24 people in my group, 12 were killed and 12 injured. They were killed by shells fired from an enemy tank. The next day the Mujahideen captured the whole garrison.
In fighting for the capture of Kalafgan in 1987, I was in charge of the communication network.
A few weeks after the Kalafgan operation, I was send to Salang at the head of group of fighters. The follow ing tasks were given to us:
1.	Firing at oil-tankers, going from the Soviet border to Kabul.
2.	Planting time-bombs in Soviet supply convoys.
3.	Cutting the pipeline carrying fuel to Bagram air base.
4.	Searching buses and trucks.
5.	Mining the road
6.	Hunting Soviet soldiers.
I remained 40 days in Salang. Because of our operation 70 tanks and trucks of the enemy were set on fire. A Soviet post along the highway collaborated with us and in some cases provided cover fire for us.
A group of young Mujahideen were used to plant time bombs in the enemy convoys. These young Mujahideen could go to the road without being suspected of having a connection with the Mujahideen.
to collect information about the enemy garrison there. A few days later, I was summoned to Khailab. The area had been heavily bombed for ten days. Three days after my arrival 300 jet and helicopters of the enemy attacked Khailab valley. In the operation seven helicopters and four jets of the enemy were shot down. Some of the helicopters were destroyed by RPG fire. A considerable number of Soviet troop and the commander of the Soviet forces were killed. The Soviet made use of 152mm artillery against the Mujahideen. Forty civilians and four Mujahideen were killed and seven Mujahideen were wounded. The Soviets retreated after mining the area. Their operation lasted one week. Fifty civilians and 100 animals were killed by the Soviet landmines.
The Farkhar operation was launched participated in the attack under the command of Pana. The Mujahideen captured
to divert the enemy attention from the operation against Kuran-o-Munjah. This tactic proved useful and the Kuran garrison was captured in a surprise attack.
In winter of 1987,1 and five other Mujahideen were travelling on jeep in the Eshkamesh area when a group of Hezb (Hikmatyar group) ambushed us. We were taken prisoner. They took our guns, money and watches. We remained in their custody for one week. An Arab brother, Marzooq Aljazairi, went to the Hezb commander, Hakimi, and pleaded for our release. They released us but did not return our guns. The Arab friend paid 360,000 Afghani ($1500) and bought my gun and gave it to me.
In February 1988, I went to Farkhar to help in the training of 500 officers of the Islamic army. I was re 'Sponsible for the training program which lasted for three months.
***