AFGHANews Vol 6, No 10, May 15,1990, page ©
Western relief body attacked I ^ by angry
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
A foreign organization working in the refugee camps was attacked by about 10,000 angry Afghan refugees on April 26, and suffered heavy material losses* Nobody was hurt in the incident.
The refugees in Nasir Bagh Camp, near Peshawar, attacked Shelter Now International (SNI) on the first day of Eid. the Material losses to SNI are estimated at about one million US dollars.
There are conflicting reports about the 'cause of the attack, which is said to have been the first of its kind against a foreign relief organization by refugees in Pakistan.
Some refugees have told reporters that SNI had provided recreation facilities for widows in the camp. Some refugees considered this an insult to the Afghan women and reacted violently.
SNI has also been accused of taking pictures and video tapes of Afghan women, which is resented by the refugees. The organization was also accused of spreading Christianity among the refugees.
The chairman of SNI, Thor Armstrong, told reporters in Peshawar that his organization had done nothing against the religion and tradition of Afghan refugees. He said a local paper played a role in inciting the people against SNI.
Wahdat Daily had published a report about the activities of SNI, based on reports provided by Afghan News Agency of Hezb Islam i Hikmatyar.
Twenty-five Afghan refugees have been detained by Pakistani authorities in connection with the incident.
Rustam Shah Mohmand, Home Secretary of N.W.FP, told the BBC that the government is investigating the causes of the incident
He said those found responsible will be tried under Pakistani law. He said the refugees' accusations against SNI also will be investigated to ensure that SNI has not violated its mandate.
SNI, an Australian relief organization, was founded in 1982. It has provided houses and food for needy refugees. SNI has employed both Afghans and foreigners to run the organization.
Since the incident took place during Eid holy days, there was not enough police force available to check the crowd, which resulted in the heavy material losses to SNI.
It may be some time before the reasons behind the incident are uncovered, but one can guess at some of the possibilities which might have led to
the outbreak of violence against SNI.
Any project for the women in Afghanistan must be planned and applied with special care. Afghans are religious people, and believe strongly in tradition. The irresponsible behavior of previous governments and the communist onslaught on religious and traditional values of the society has made Afghans more sensative.
Unfortunately most of the foreign organizations working for Afghanistan have only a superficial understanding of Afghan traditions and religious values. Their contact is frequently limited ■to a few educated, elite Afghans whose thinking differs from the majority of the people. This could have been the source of mistakes which irritated the refugees.
The Kabul regime is interested in such incidents to exploit them for political ends. It has the means to plan and execute such actions to defame the Mujahideen and undermine international support for the refugees.
But the possibility that the incident was a politically motivated action by Some Mujahideen political parties cannot be ruled out.
No doubt such incidents will be used against Afghans by their enemies. Moscow Radio used the incident as a propaganda chip against the resistance.
A spokesman for Prof. Mujaddidi described the incident as "a sad development" for, the relief work of voluntary organizations at a time when the refugees need their support.
The incident has pleased anti-western groups interested in Afghanistan, they call it an uprising of Muslims against negative western influence.
iLlm* , JuuLJ ciLo L

If you sit with moon, you will become like moon; if you sit beside a cooking pot, you will get black.
Meaning: You reflect the company you keep.
<sy^
Not to be considered queer conform to the crowd.
Meaning: If you don't want to look silly, look like others.
s'*.4*
Between brother and brother, accounts should be square.
Meaning: Even among friends, business should be carried on an exact basis.
tSJ Jj *jJj
Even an ant is brave ip its own home.
Meaning: A cock crows loudest on his own dunghill.