AFGHANews Vol 5, No 14, July 15,1989, page ©
News
From the battlefields
Balkh province
Mujahideen from Jami'at shot down an enemy jet with a missile on July 6. The plane crashed near Chashma-i- S hafa.
The Mujahideen set fire to the ammunition dump at Shadian garrison on July 2. No detail of the casualty is reported.
Military activities in Balkh has increased recently. Jami'at commanders, Alam Khan and Khalil Khan have been busy fighting the enemy and reorganizing their forces.
The Mujahideen in the areas suffer from shortages of ammunition and heavy weapons due to long transportation lines and seasonal road blocks.
Ningarhar province
The enemy forces recaptured some of the positions that they had lost earlier, when they launched an attack against the Mujahideen on July 8.
The enemy forces pushed the Mujahideen 12 kilometers to the east of Jalalabad, but their advance was checked when.the Mujahideen regrouped and lauhched a counter attack against them.
Fighting is now concentrated around Samar Khail, a garrison captured three months ago by the Mujahideen.
The enemy air force daily bomb the Mujahideen positions and the regime uses Scud missiles against them.
The Kabul-Jalalabad road has been cut by the Mujahideen in Sorobi area for two weeks.
The regime had claimed a major victory in Jalalabad front and even said that its forces had captured Torkham border post about 65 kilometers from Jalalabad.
A group of foreign journalists were taken to Jalalabad by the regime. They reported that the airport was damaged and was not useable by planes.
Only helicopters could land there.
One of the reasons tge regime could not advance east of Jalalabad was attack by the Mujahideen in other fronts around Jalalabad.
The regime had chosen the time of the attack close to Eid when most of the Mujahideen return to the refugees camps to visit their families.
As a result of fresh fighting and increased bombing and missile attacks more refugees have entered Pakistan from around Jalalabad.
Kandahar province
An enemy jet was shot down by the Mujahideen on July 3. The plane crashed in Kandahar airport
Hindu refugee runs herbal clinic
Gophal Singh, a 68-year-old Afghan Hindu who has come to Pakistan as a refugee, says he preferred being in the service of the Mujahideen and refugees of his country to going to India.
Gophal Singh, who lives with thousands of other Afghan refugees in Bad Camp of Pabbi, added that he had a herbal clinic in Kagga and whenever needed, he rode his horse with the Mujahideen to reach an ill Mujahid in remote areas of Khogyani district. He said he treated wounded Mujahideen for free.
The Afghan Hindu, who inherited the traditional means of remedy by herbs from his father, still continued treating patients in the refugee camp.
"We are the only Hindu family who happily lives in a camp alongside Muslim refugees. Hindus and other minorities in Afghanistan were treated fairly by the community," he said.
Hindus and Sikhs resented the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and some of them supported the resistance financially.
There were several thousands Hindus and Sikhs living in the major cities of Afghanistan. They enjoyed full freedom of worship.
Fighting stops natural gas export to USSR
Regime officials have said that natural gas exports to the Soviet Union have been suspended since Soviet troop withdrawal on February 15, AFP reported
Regime officials have said that the decision to stop exporting natural gas to the Soviet Union has been taken wi security grounds.
Natural gas is produced - in Jawzjan province. 97 percent of the gas was exported to the Soviet Union through a 50 kilometer pipeline.
There is one fertilizer factory and one power generating plant in Mazar which use natural gas.
Regime officials have said that production of natural gas for domestic use continues.
In late 1970 Afghanistan was sending 2.1 billion cubic meters of its natural gas to the Soviet Union which earned Afghanistan 30 million dollars. No reliable statistics are available for the years of occupation. It is believed
that Soviets paid much lower than the market price for Afghan natural gas.
Ex-officers of the Afghan natural gas authority say that the measuring devices for exported natural gas are situated on Soviet territory and Afghans have no control over them.
It is reported that a decline has been recorded in production of natural gas. Observers believe it could be due to rapid drawing of the gas from the wells.
Imam prays for Mujahideen
Muslims performing the annual haj to Mecca, the holiest place in Islam, were urged on Friday to back the Palestinians drive for self determination and the cause of anti-communist Afghan Mujahideen.
Sheikh Abdel Rahman Daiss, Imam of Mecca's Great Mosque, was speaking to nearly one million pilgrims from far flung countries such as the Soviet Union, China and South Africa.