AFGHANews Vol 8, No 7, April 1,1992, page @
Afghan new year raises ne:
AMF leader seeks support for the Burmese Muslims
Several Mujahideen leaders have roped that the new Afghan year would Ire witness to the return of peace and establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. The Afghan year of 1371 began on March 21.
In his new year message. Prof. Rabbani said that the Mujahideen's victory in the historic province of Balkh, at the eve of the new year, was a good start He said the victory of the Mujahideen came at a time when the outside world had stopped giving support to them and even Jehad friends were showing to the Mujahideen the door of compromise with the Soviet-installed Kabul regime.
Jami’at leader said the recent victories showed that Afghan Jehad was independent from influence of outside powers. "If the rest of the world close their doors to the face of the Mujahideen, the door of God will always remain open to them," he said.
Prof. Rabbani asked the people of Afghanistan to pay no attention to the rumors of division among Afghans on ethnic lines and advised them to keep their unity and foil the plots designed to divide them. He said Jami'at was ready to give every sacrifice for the sake of preservation of the national unity.
Najib, the head of the Kabul regime, also expressed hope that the war would end during the new year. Narrating the Afghan proverb that a good year could be predicted from its good spring, Najib said that the peace process which had begun will succeed.
The proverb, however, can predict the end of regime during the year 1371. Three days before the start of the new year, Mazar-i-Sharif, the host of the yearly Tied Flower Festival', fell to the opponents of the regime and was fol lowed by other victories in other parts of Afghanistan.
MohammatT Iqbal, the chairman of Arakan Mujahideen Front (AMF), has come to Pakistan to inform the people of Pakistan and Afghan Mujahideen leaders about the plight of Muslims in Arakan.
He met with Prof. Rabbani in Peshawar and informed him about the current situations in Arakan and the exodus of about 300,000 Muslim refugees from Arakan to Bangladesh.
Iqbal described the situation in Arakan as grave and stressed the need for moral and material support of Muslims and the rest of the world to alleviate the suffering of Arakan refugees.
Sympathizing with the Arakan Muslims, Prof. Rabbani assured the AMF leader of his support.
Talking to AFGHANews, Iqbal asked the Muslims to raise their voices in support of oppressed Muslims in Arakan. He said Muslims in Arakan have become a target of suppression because they resisted the moves by military junta in Rangoon to change their culture and religion.
The AMF leader said Islam came to Arakan in 768 and Muslims formed their first government in Arakan in 1430. Farsi was the official language of Arakan state till 1845.
Oppression of Muslims in Burma intensified when Rangoon started to
Condolence message
Jami'at leader has condoled and sympathized with victims of the earthquake which struck the city of Eizmcan on March 13. About 600 people were killed and hundreds were injured in this natural disaster. In a message to the government of Turkey, Prof. Rabbani said he and the rest of the Afghan Mujahideen shared the grief of the people and government of Turkey over the tragedy.
impose socialism on them in 1962 Systematic suppression of Muslims led to the influx of about 300,000 Muslims from Arakan	to
Bangladesh in 1978. Later,
200,000 of these refugees were repatriated.
More than 3.5 million Muslims live in Arakan who form 55% of the population of the region.
AMF is one of the three mam groups struggling for restoration of the rights of the Muslims in Arakan. The leader of AMF took part in the OIC’s conference on Muslim minorities in Jeddah in 1982.
Iqbal praised the efforts of Bangladesh government in support of Arakan refugees.
The Muslims in Arakan sympa thize with Afghan Mujahideen and are inspired by their historic resistance against the Red Army. Some youths from Arakan even have visited the Mujahideen inside Afghanistan and been martyred in Afghanistan.
Those interested to get more information about Muslims in Arakan can write to:
Post Office Box 535 Chittagong - Bangladesh
Attention: South-East Asia and Pacific readers
The representation of Afghan Mujahideen (JIA) in Australia has provided the following opportunity for you to share in the suffering of Afghan people:
Provide wheelchairs and crutches
One of the important and urgent requirements of the JIA's Supervisory Council is to provide 300 pairs of crutches and 50 wheelchairs for the new victims of war. According to the council, one pair of metal crutches is estimated 750 Rupees (Aus $45) and an average wheelchair is estimated 2500 Rupees (Aus $150).
With the help of generous donations JIA Australia office has so far provided 20 wheelchairs and 100 pairs of crutches. For the remaining, generous donations are welcomed.
Please deposit your donation to:
Afghan Mujahideen Projects Fund Account No. 548 632 564 Branch No 012006 ANZ BANK
Or make your cheque/bankdraft payable to:
Afghan Mujahideen Projects Fund and send it to GPO Box 3098 Sydney 2001 Australia
for enquiries contact (02) 759 8013