I
—---- ~~ AFGHANews Vol 6, No 4, Febraary 15,1990, page ©
Azerbaijanis’ struggle poses serious threat to
By: Marie Broxup
Certain republics and cities have a special importance in. the eyes of Soviet Muslims. Such is the case of Azerbaijan a land of ancient history, the birthplace of Nizami Gandjavi and a cross road for Persian and Turkic influences. For a short period after the Russian Revolution, from May 1918 to April 1920, Azerbaijan was an independent republic, the first ever Muslim republic. Before the Revolution it was the Azeris, together with the Tatars who led the reformist Jadid movement and provided the intellectual leadership of the national liberation struggle among the Muslims from the Russian Empire.
Strategically the importance of Azerbaijan, bordering Iran and Turkey is self evident. Contrary to the republics of Central Asia it is developed industrially with important chemical and oil industries. Because of this Azerbaijan has the capacity to bring havoc to the whole of the Soviet economy as happened during the general strike in September 1989. What is more, the two neighboring Transcaucasian republics, Armenia and Georgia are to a great extent dependent on Azerbaijan, a land of riches, for their survival. Today, Azerbaijan like the other union republics enjoys little of its natural wealth with at least 93% of all its natural products, including oil, being exported at fictional prices to the USSR.
75% of the 7 million Soviet Azeris are Shias (Ithna Ashariya), the remaining 25% are Sunnis of the Hanafi school. However, despite their religious link with Iran, the influence of the Islamic Revolution has been weaker among the Azeris than among other Muslims of USSR. This is due perhaps to the influence of the Iranian Azeris who have not fared as well as they may have expected since the Islamic Revolution, and also to the suspicion provoked by the present rapprochement between Tehran and Moscow.'
On 16 January 1990 Moscow began dispatching troops to Azerbaijan, a total of some 20,000, to uphold the peace between Armenians and Azerbaijanis. For three, days they remained stationed in Baku airport, in the military garrison and around the city, surrounded by barricades erected by Azerbaijani nationalists. A state of emergency was declared but remained ineffective as the Azerbaijani Communist Party had lost control and representatives of the Popular Front of Azerbaijan were running the Republic.
IOn 19 January around midnight, having patiently waited while Armenians
were killed and when the inter-ethnic violence had quietened, the army stormed Baku in a two-pronged attack by land and sea. Tanks and artillery Ere were used to crush the barricades and disperse the demonstrators. The next day the littte autonomous republic of Nakhichevan declared secession from the. USSR. The president of the Azerbaijani Supreme Soviet, Elmira Kafarova, contrary to the example given by Babrak Karmal, in a courageous appeal to the United Nations condemned the military intervention as a gross violation of Azerbaijan's sovereignty, adding that "the people of Azerbaijan will never forgive anyone for the tragic way their sons and daughters have been killed". Spirited resistance continued everywhere:	in
Lenkoran, Jelalabad and elsewhere the seats of the communist party were stormed, the Baku cadets mutinied (to this day it is unknown how many died in the garrison), the Azeri merchant fleet which was blockading the Soviet warships in the bay of Baku had to be dispersed with canon fire from shore. We know that at least one oil tanker was sunk. On 25 January the official number of casualties was 125. According to a count by the Popular Front there were 552 dead in Baku hospitals alone. The total number of casualties may well run in the thousands.
Ten days after the uprising Moscow was unable to regain military control. The army which had, according to Moscow, re-occupied Nakhichevan, was incapable of stopping the population building a bridge over the Arax river and crossing into Iran. Politically the situation was no better. According to Afrant Dashtamirov, a member of the Azerbaijani Central Committee, the Popular Front had the support of the majority of the republic. There was talk of secession and resistance "Afghan style". Apart from the general malaise common to all regions of the USSR, three factors have contributed to the crisis: the territorial dispute with Armenia over Nagorno-Karabakh, the problem of the refugees, and Moscow's categorical refusal to open a dialogue with the new national movements.
The problems of Nagorno-Karabakh are well known. What is less known is the fact that Karabakh despite having a majority Armenian population, is considered by every Azeri as belonging to the very heart of their ancestral lands and has been for centuries
a center of Azeri culture. Also, rightly or wrongly, the Azeris consider that since the beginning of the dispute two years ago, Moscow has deliberately favoured the Armenians, promoting in the Soviet media the false idea of a struggle between Armenian glasnost and Azeri Muslim fanaticism and corruption. Moist Soviet Muslims feel that Moscow is leading a "crusade" against Azerbaijan using the conflict to wipe out any hope of national revival and independence.
For the last two years. Azerbaijanis have been fleeing from Armenia. Today there is not a single Azeri community left in the Armenian republic. The official number of refugees is
165.000,	but the real figure is near
220.000.	It is not the first Azeri migration during the Soviet period; after World War 2,100,000 Azeris were forcibly deported from their traditional homeland within Armenia. Contrary to Armenian emigres who were often allowed to leave in some comfort after having sold their apartments, the Azeris arrived empty handed with tales of atrocities equal to those that the Armenians had to suffer in Sumgait Until six months ago all reference to the refugees in the Soviet press, including in Azerbaijan, \**as taboo. Their presence in shanty towns around Baku has contributed to the economic crisis of Azerbaijan, already drained by the incompetent and greedy colonial administration from Moscow.
The first organized movement of dissent appeared among the industrial workers of Baku under the leadership of a remarkable young man, Neitnat Panakhov, dubbed the "Lech Walesa of Azerbaijan". Strikes and demonstrations began in November and December 1988. The elite of the country after some hesitation followed the popular piovement and join with the masses in establishing the Popular Front. Baku is occupied by the army with tanks at every cross roads, although the troops do not intervene. In Spring 1989, Baku was once again under military control and pressure mounted with the economic blockade and embargo between Armenia and Azerbaijan. The description of the bullish behavior of the Soviet army, seen as an army of occupation, was already comparable with the tales of the Afghan refugees.
On 2 September 1989 during a gigantic demonstration in Baku (nearly half a million people), the Popular Front threw an ultimatum to the government and declared a general strike-the first ever in a Soviet re-
J