AFGHANews Vol7, No 12, June 15,1991, page ©
to preserve Khost war memorabilia
The helibus passes by a destroyed village of Panjshir in 1984.
The Mujahideen of Khost have decided to preserved the remnants of war in that district. There are numerous damaged tanks, armored cars and planes in Khost. The Mujahideen say that these are part of the history of Jehad and should be preserved. The people, however, want to be allowed to turn them into tea houses and store rooms.
Due to Mujhaideen's preoccupation and uncertain circumstances, they had paid little attention to this issue in the past
: Poor living conditions is a key factor behind the disappearance of destroyed tanks, planes and helicopters. They are chopped up and sold as scrap metal.
The Soviet and Kabul regimes r--------------------------!—>.
Nowshehra blast
Thirteen people were killed and many others injured when an ammunition dump exploded near Nowshera, near Peshawar, on May
31.
Some newspapers speculated that the dump might have belonged to the Mujahideen but a Pakistan Army press release said it belong exclusively to the Army.
Kandahar Varsity'
The Kabul regime has opened a university in Kandahar, which has only a faculty of agriculture. Radio Kabul reported.
Opening universities in different parts of Afghanistan seems to be designed for propaganda gains. Even Kabul University is facing shortages of professors and academic facilities:
have always tried to take away or com pletely destroy the remains of damaged tanks and planes. They did not want their soldiers and airmen to see scores of armored vehicles, helicopters and planes destroyed by the Mujahideen because of their demoralizing effect on their soldiers.They also wanted to deprive the Mujahideen and foreign press from reporting the damages inflicted on them.
The decision of the Mujahideen of Khost, if implemented, will enrich the war museum of a free Afghanistan. The Mujahideen in other parts of Afghanistan should follow them in their wise decision.
In 1983, the Mujahideen in Panjshir turned a damaged Russian helicopter into a bus. The body of the helicopter was fixed on a captured Russian truck. People enjoyed training by what was called "• Helibus" The bus drew the attention of visiting Mujahideen and foreign journalists.
AFGHAN PROVERBS
1

Everyone’s own country is Kashmir to him.
Meaning: There is no place like home.	1
S^
Though the mountain be high, there’will still be a road to its top.
Meaning: Every problem has a solution.
Wisdom is learnt from the unwise.
Meaning: Wisdom rides upon the ruins of folly. Learn from the mistakes of other.
JL
<U. 6J
r
The world is his who eats (enjoys) it, not his who saves (and skimps).
Meaning: The gown is hers who wears it, and the world is his that enjoys it.
Marratea Jabvr bin Abdullah: I
m	' ■* \........	''	'
IP 1 , .