AFGHANews Vol 6, No 22, November 15,1990, page @
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Cmdr. Khalilullah Hotak
Khalilullah Hotak, Jami'at commander in Jaghatu District of Ghazni Province, leads about 500 armed Mujahideen. He is famous for his piety and fair treatment of the people.
In 1979, he began Jehad under the command of Mullah ■Caka, Chief Commander of Ghazni, who did not belong to any party.
Khalilullah came to Peshawar in 1980 and joined Jami'at Islami Afghanistan. He established his base in Baba Husain Wali mountain. As the time passed he spread his influence.
Now he commands Jami’at Mujahideen in Muqur, Nawa,
Qarabagh, Aab Band and Rashidan areas. He has participated in many operations against the enemy and has been wounded three times.
Here are some of his famous operations:
•In 1984, his underground men exploded an enemy ammunition dump in Ghazni as a result of which 47 soldiers of the regime were killed.
•In 1985, the Soviet attacked the Mujahideen bases in Gudal-e-Ahengran area. The Mujahideen under his command resisted well. As a result 130 Soviet and regime soldiers were killed or wounded. Four Mujahideen were also martyred.
•In 1986, his Mujahideen attacked the air base of the enemy in Ghazni with heavy weapons destroying four
#5
helicopters and killing many regime soldiers.
•In 1989, the Mujahideen liberated 1 Soor Kelay( the Red Village), the native village of Noor Mohammad Taraki. They seized 2400 pieces of light weapons, 12 heavy guns arid eight tanks and armored cars. His Mujahideen played a key role in that operation.
Khalilullah has cordial relations with other Mujahideen groups in Ghazni.
He has paid attention to education and health of the people . He has established eleven Madrasas, "religious schools" in which more than 1000 students study. He has opened three health clinics in Rashidan, Qarabagh and Muqur.
Khalilullah was bom 30 years ago in Rashidan Village of Jaghatu District. His father, Haji Sultan Mahmood, was the head of Hakim-i-Sanaee Transport Company and now serves as the head of the Tribal Council of Ghazni.
Khalilullah finished primary school in Rashidan and in 1973 attended Darul Ulum-e-Arabi, "Arabic college", in Kabul.
After completing college in 1979, he enrolled in the Faculty of Islamic Law. He was forced to leave the university after six months. He went to Ghazni to take part in armed struggle. He is married and has four children.
Sharif s government committed to support Jehad in Afghanistan
Election of Nawaz Sharif as the 13th Prime Minister of Pakistan is considered a positive event for Afghan Mujahideen.
He and the President of Pakistan have vowed to support a political settlement of. the Afghan problem that returns Afghans their democratic rights.
In a speech to the joint session of the parliament. President Ghulam Ishaq Khan said that in Pakistan’s view, the sacrifices of Afghan people should not go in vain.
Several Mujahideen leaders have congratulated Nawaz Sharif for his assumption of the new post. Ordinary refugees also seemed happy over the victory of IJI.
Changes of government have had little effect on the Pakistan's Afghan policy. The government of Benazir
Bhutto followed the policy laid down by her predecessor. President Zia. Afghan watchers believe, however, that greater cooperation will be witnessed between different sections of the Pakistan Government which deal with different aspect of the problem. It is believed that the new government's relations with the Army will be closer than the PPP government and this will have a positive effect on the Afghan policy.
Moscow and the Kabul regime have shown concern about the effects of the change of government in Islamabad on the Afghan issue. Moscow radio in a commentary said that Nawaz Sharifs victory was a setback to the political settlement of the Afghan issue. Papers in Kabul have expressed similar worries.

The embassy of the, Islamic Republic of	Afs
IflOaOGG (US $}m) t| a hospital afcd:	donation- mp^^	of	the
Piriphef^
1:’:'f;if |sf:/'***'|§j|$ fffifif
jlNearly^OO /Soviets poljpe and security fbrces haye -b	on
active duty this year. Task news agen* cy reported*
Police have arrested 346,009 people	anti
seized nearlylS	drugs,	the
i If; \	.	•
%|p^;j|r^an.:' pattonal^iniifc
of the Kai^^i^gtifte have
Embas^Sin Kabjlil and three other Iranian to given UNHCR at their own wish, Radio Kabul reported.
The Iranians were accused of illegally entering Afghanistan. A spokesman of the Kabul regime said the decision was made On humanitarian grounds;	 'v'^
UN says 1171 refugee families returned to Afghanistan under that organization's three-month repatriation pipgram.
:||;|Reiurri|n| refugees from
.^uefias^	and
those were, returned from NWFP were3629’families. :	: -	'
UN expected repatriation of mdteihan families.
■	j:||
After One month stay in Pakistan Commander Masood left Peshawar to Afghanistan on November 8.. .
He attended the commanders meeting near the border and later he went to Islamabad where he met with Pakistan authorities, diplomats of friendly countries and Mujahideen
' Indian will sell	tpnsfof
wheat|||:; the ■ Kabul regime at subsi dized prices. The wheat Will be delivered to the regime in five years.
mm
UN Development' program will spend seven million US dollars to provide drinking water for the city of Kabul, BBC reported quoting UN officiate based
w