AFGHANews Vol 5, No20, October 15,1989, page©
s:;
MaSiott;':idiscuSsJ war situation |
Prof. Rabbani, Jami'at leader, held extensive talks inside Afghanistan with Com. Ahmad Shah Masood in the last week of September.
Masood was visiting Badakhshan province, near the border with Pakistan, when the meeting took place. It was a good opportunity for both leaders to discuss the military and political situation in Afghanistan.
In addition to Prof. Rabbani a group of Jami'at officers working for the Supervisory Council also met with Com. Masood.
The meeting took place in Top Khana, a garrison evacuated last year by the Soviet troops.
One day after the meeting, the area was heavily bombed by enemy planes, but there were no casualties.
This was the second meeting between Prof. Rabbani and Commander Masood within one year.
Second Seminar on Afghanistan studies ways of achieving peace
USSR appoints new envoy to Kabul mission
Moscow has appointed Boris Pastukhov the new Soviet Ambassador to Kabul, the Soviet News Agency Tasshas reported.
He will replace Yuli Vorontsov, the first Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, who was appointed as Soviet ambassador to Kabul in Octoberl988.
Mr. Pastukhov has served as First Secretary of Komsomol, the Communist Youth Organization; and as president of the State Committee of Publishing. He undertook his first diplomatic post when he was appointed Ambassador to Denmark in 1986.
Kabul regime pilot defects
Major Jalaluddin landed his MIG-21 fighter in Peshawar on September 29, seeking asylum.
He was on a bombing mission against the Mujahideen in Sorobi, on the Kabul-Jalalabad highway, when he defected
Later he told a press conference in Islamabad that Soviet pilots were still involved in operations against the Mujahideen.
The second seminar on Afghanistan ended in Tehran on October 4, after three days of deliberation on the political and military situation in Afghanistan.
The seminar was arranged by the Institute of International and Strategic Studies of the Foreign Ministry of Iran on the theme "An Independent Islamic and Non-Aligned Afghanistan".
Eight hundred scholars, political leaders of the Afghan Resistance, leaders of some Islamic movements and Mujahideen commanders participated in the seminar.
The seminar was opened by reading the message of President Rafsanjani in which he asked for a broad-based government in Afghanistan in which all groups and sections of the Afghan people should lake part.
Dr. Velayati, the foreign minister of the Islamic Republic of Iran, was the first speaker. He assured the Afghan people of Iran's continuous support.
In three days, 28 papers were read by scholars and Mujahideen leaders. The papers discussed the political, economic and military situation in Afghanistan, and ways of achieving peace in that war-tom country.
Prof. Mujaddidi, the President of the Interim Government, asked for recognition of die interim government by the Islamic countries and rejected the possibility of any dialogue with the communist regime of Najibullah.
Mohaqqiq, the spokesman of the eight-party coalition based in Iran, asked for broadening the base of the interim government to make it acceptable to the coalidon.
Prof. Rabbani, Jami'at leader, and the leaders of Mujahideen independent groups also spoke.
All Mujahideen leaders rejected any future role for the communist regime and asked for unity among Afghans.
Scholars and experts from Pakistan, Iran, Lebanon, Turkey, Austria, France, West Germany and the U.K. also participated in the seminar. Most of them believed that there was no military solution to the problem of Afghanistan. They were of the view that the Mujahideen's poor performance in the battlefield is due to lack of unity. Some were in favor of talks between Mujahideen and people working in the Kabul administration. The Mujahideen, however, strongly rejected the any deal with the communist regime.
In the opening session some diplomats, Walid Jumblat, leader of Lebanon's Socialist Party and Nabi Berry, the leader of the Amal party, also participated.
The leaders of the independent Mujahideen parties, who have close ties with Tehran, and representatives of some Islamic movements, warned against American interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. They went so far in emphasizing the danger of American involvement in Afghanistan that they rarely mentioned the atrocities committed by the Soviet Union in ten years of occupation.
Participation of a considerable number of Afghan women in the seminar was also a new development Some of these women had gone from Peshawar while the rest came from among the refugees living in Iran. Women speakers emphasized the role of Afghan women in Jehad and reconstruction in Afghanistan.
Though the seminar was designed to let scholars debate the issue and propose solutions, the presence of so many Afghan leaders. Mujahideen commanders and members of.Islamic movements gave it a political color.
The participants, especially the Mujahideen leaders, met with President Rafsanjani and Dr. Velayati to discuss the latest situation with them.
The Iranian leaders asked the Mujahideen to unite their ranks because unity was the only way to victory and peace.
After meeting Rafsanjani, Professor Mujaddidi and Mohaqqiq promised to re-start dialogue to find a formula to enable the eight-party coalition join the Interim Government
Mohammad Younus Qanuni spoke in the seminar as the representative of Ahmad Shah Masood. He stressed the need for escalation of the war and said that it was the only way of achieving peace. He asked commanders to forge practical unity among themselves; the political leaders to support war efforts, and the friendly countries to assist the Mujahideen in their struggle for self-determination.
ICRC criticized
Amin Wardak, famous commander of Wardak told MIDI A that ICRC delegation under the cover of meeting wounded Afghans, was searching for Russian prisoners