AFGHANews Vol 8, No 13, July 1,1992, page Q

	
Editorial 		!		
A historic event
The peaceful transfer of power from Prof. Mujaddidi to Prof. Rabbani on June 28 was a historic event which consolidated the foundation of the new Islamic government in Afghanistan.
This is the first time since 1901, and one of only a few times in Afghan history that power has been transferred from one person to another peacefully. The transfer of power ended a crises which could have pushed the country into chaos. The transfer of power look place according to an agreement signed by of Lhc Mujahideen leaders in Peshawar on April 24 .
According to this agreement, two months after transfer of power from the previous Kabul regime to Jehadi Council, headed by Prof. Mujaddidi, the power will be transferred to Prof. Rabbani, the head of the Leadership Council, and he will work as the head of state for four months.
At the end of his term, a representative council will decide about the form and composition of the interim government which will rule the country for a maximum period of two years during which an elected government will be formed.
Doubts about a peaceful transfer of power arose when Prof. Mujaddidi began to say Lhat people wanted him to remain in office for more than two months, that the leadership issue would be decided by the nation, and that he would transfer power to the Leadership and Jehadi councils rather than to Prof. Rabbani as decided under the Peshawar Agreement.
Mujaddidi introduced new members to the Leadership and Jehadi councils without consulting other leaders. He organized meetings of people from different parts of Afghanistan who demanded his tenure in office be prolonged. These moves created serious doubts about the peaceful and timely transfer of power to Prof. Rabbani.
The people of Afghanistan and their foreign friends were getting worried dun a delay in transfer of power might plunge the country into a'serious crisis and endanger the relative security achieved during the past two months.
Finally, logic and common sense prevailed and power was transferred on lime and in a peaceful manner. This was proof that the Afghan leadership has the farsightedness, maturity and resolve to solve their problems through political means. It was also a departure from the usual practices in exile, where some people got away with not fulfilling their promises if they deemed it served their personal interests.
The transfer of power has provided grounds for full implementation of the Peshawar agreement This will pave way for the formation of an elected government in Afghanistan.
The implementation of the Peshawar agreement could persuade those panics which have remained out of government to join Ihepolitical process and pul an end to military confrontation.
The peaceful transfer of power relieved ordinary Afghans of the fear of war and bloodshed, and was welcomed by foreign countries who wanted to see Afghanistan peaceful.
Now that power has been transferred, all the Mujahideen leaders should work closely for implementation of the Peshawar accord. This will be possible when security has been provided to the people of Kabul and essential commodities and services are provided to all Afghans. These aims could be achieved through collective efforts of all the Mujahideen. Four months is a short time for solving the problems that Afghanistan is facing, but the foundation of an Islamic state can be laid and obstacles removed from the path of future elected government.
The final solution to the problems of Afghanistan is holding elections. A coordinated effort'by all the Mujahideen panics during the four months that Prof. Rabbani is in office could make this political process irreversible.
United Nations Afghan envoy transferred
Bcnon Sevan, the UN Sccrctary-GcneraTs special envoy to Afghanistan, was replace by Soiirios Mousouris, an ! Assistant Secretary General for ! Political Affairs, on June 19.
The transfer of Sevan took place ! after his failure to secure a political so-• lution to the problem of Afghanistan.
| Accoring to Sevan's plan, the pow-| cr would have been transferred from i Najib to a neutral administration which j would have paved the way for holding | elections. The plan collapsed when the i Mujahideen captured Bagram and were I poised to enter Kabul.
\ Sevan tried to rescue Najib by fly-! ing him out of the country in a UN plane on April 16. When the security forces at the airport prevented Najib ; from boarding the plane, he was al-! lowed to take refuge in the UN com-| pound inside the city.
I The attempt to rescue Najib, in the t middle of night, caused some resent-| ment among the Mujahideen. It. is bc-i tieved that the UN authorities were also : annoyed by Sevan’s move because it j was interference in the internal affairs ! of Afghanistan.
Sevan justified his action on the ground that he had promised safe passage for Najib once he had resigned and that he was fulfilling his promise.
Sevan, ah Armenian Cypriot, spent three years trying to find a. solution to Afghanistan’s 14-ycar conflict.
Sevan’s departure seems to be a timely decision because he considered the Mujahideen operation for the liberation of Kabul as deliberate attempt to sabotage his peace plan. With such a mentality, it would have been difficult of expect a constructive contribution to Afghanistan.
Sevan had built a close relationship with Najibullah. Although he was more careful than his predecessors, Cordovez and Sadruddin, to keep his neutrality, at least on the surface, it was becoming increasingly obvious that he did not treat the Mujahideen with the same degree of seriousness as he treated the rulers in Kabul.
He also had ignored the influence of field commanders such as Masood, and did not try to discuss the issue with them in the course of his shuttle peace mission.
Najib undoubtedly has been saddened by Sevan’s departure. The UN envoy had tried to save him and was busy trying to find a way for him to leave the country.