AFGHANews Vol7, Noll, June 1,1991, page
Another major victory!
The Liberation of Khawja Ghar, one month after the fall of Khost, was a major victory for the Mujahideen. It was also the first major victory of the Supervisory Council (SC), head by Ahmad Shah Masood, after the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan in 1989.
SC has been planning large scale operations against the Kabul regime sines a long time, but shortages of supplies and problems created by a rival Mujahideen party postponed launching of a major offensive.
Afghans, as well as the foreign supporters of Jehad, wanted to know why the SC did not gain any major military victory following the withdrawal of Soviet troops. The fall of Khawja Ghar, in an extremely efficient operation, has answered some of the questions.
Khawja Ghar is located close to the Soviet border and militias defending it belonged to SAZA and SAFZA communist factions. They had established direct link with the Soviet government and were being supplied directly from across the Amuriver.
Soviet Union wanted to create a security belt along the border by hiring local groups loyal to Moscow. The two factions of SAZA and SAFZA had volunteered for the job in return for Soviets' political, military and financial favors.The fall of Khawja Ghar was a severe blow to two local communist factions collaborating with the Soviet Union,
The fall of Khawja Ghar has isolated the regime garrisons in Badakhshan and Kunduz and has further secured the liberated areas in the north, particularly the city ofTaliqan.
The operation at Khawja Ghar displayed the capabilities of Commander Masood in planning and executing major offensives. This was the first time that he successfully led 4500 men in an operation involving several Mujahideen parties. Casualties of the Mujahideen were extremely low and operation time was limited to only four days. Military operations by the Mujahideen in other parts of Afghanistan did not allow the Kabul regime to respond effectively against the Mujahideen during fighting in Khawja Ghar.
More important than all, the operation was a joint venture in which six Mujahideen parties participated. This was a significant development with positive implication on the future operations against the communist regime. Masood has been busy working towards a political understanding among the Mujahideen in the area to pave the way for joint operations. This is the first time that his efforts have given positive results.
As it was expected , the prisoners of war were treated properly, the captured arms and ammunition were not wasted and a joint civil administration was created in the liberated district. These steps will encourage the regime troops to give up fighting when they are attacked by organized forces of the Mujahideen in the future.
So far, the Kabul regime has not admitted the fall of Khawja Ghar because of its negative implication on the morale of its troops. Moreover, the Kabul regime could not have accused Pakistan army of "direct involvement" in an area so close to the Soviet border. The Najib regime limited its reaction to firing of SCUD missiles and areal bombing of the liberated district. Though these attacks caused some casualties, they will have no military significance. They are launched to terrorize people.
The fall of Khawja Ghar was not fully reflected in the world Media. The operation lasted only for a few days and fighting theater was unaccessible by the foreign journalist due to closure of mountain passes. Moreover, the recent diplomatic activities, launched by Pakistan and the UN for finding a political solution
H
Page(8)
War news
From page (2)
launched the offensive because of increased Mujahideen operations on Herat-Torghundi road and blockade of Herat-Kandahar road.
. All the Mujahideen groups present in Herat took part in fighting against the invading enemy and their unity caused the Kabul regime to pay a high price for its invasion. Fighting in Zindajan still continued when this report was filed on May 27.
•	The Mujahideen of Jami’at killed 13 militiamen and set on fire 13 trucks loaded with ammunition in Khoosh Rabat, Gulran District, on Herat-Torghundi road on May 22.
•	The Mujahideen killed three enemy soldiers and seized three Kalashnikov rifles, one PK machine-. gun and one R-105 radio set in an ambush on Herat-Torghundi road on May 23.
Faryab Province
The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed or wounded 80 enemy troops and captured three when they attacked the regime military installations in Maimana and security posts around it on May 17. The Mujahideen captured 50 Kalashnikov rifles and one PK machin-egun. Seven Mujahideen were killed and 15 were injured. Regime's artillery and air force pounded the liberated areas around Maimana causing heavy losses among noncombatants.
Baghlan Province
•	The Mujahideen of Jami'at captured 100 militiamen, killed 30 and wounded 25 when they attacked them in the center of Baghlan Province on May 20, Commander Haqjo reported.
The Mujahideen liberated the villages of Chacha-o-Salangi, Tajik Ha, Quchi, Talooka and Cheragh anc seized 300 Kalashnikov rifles, 50 ma-chineguns and some ammunition. Three Mujahideen were killed and two were wounded in the operation.
On the same day, the Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked Koroo and Khwaja Zaid posts of Kayan militias in Doshi District, killing 30 militiamen.
Commander Haqjo reported that his Mujahideen's attack was in accordance with the decision of the sixth meeting of Supervisory Cbuncil hek some time ago in Taliqan.
•	Twenty two armed soldiers of the Kabul regime defected to the Mujahideen of Jami’at in Hasantal of Baghlan on May 23, Commander Haqjo reported. The soldiers set on fire a regime tank before changing side.