AFGHANews Vol 8, No 4, February 15, 1992, page ©
Book Review
Looking to the future
Edited by Suroosh Irfani and Fazal-ur-Rahman
Institute of Strategic Studies,
F-5(2, Islamabad, Pakistan
Price $6 paperback. 156 pages.
The rebuilding of Afghanistan after a devastating war is the subject of a new book with valuable chapters by Afghan, Pakistani and German analysts who were brought together at a seminar held in Islamabad, under the auspices of Pakistan's prestigious current affairs institute and the Konrad Adenauer Foundation of Germany.
On the sensitive issue of repatriation of Afghan refugees, Pakistani specialist Nasim Zahra sums up succinctly the present problem and ways of resolving it, in the interests of both countries. She shows that Pakistan's role is crucial, both at the political and and reconstruction level. Renee Van Royyen of UNHCR states a definite, wish to return home among many of the refugees. Yet, given all the current dangers inside the country and political uncertainties, active promotion of repatriation by UNHCR would be premature. Sabah-ud-din Kushkaki, Afghanistan editor of the review 'Afghan Jehad’ writes that the refugees will not return unless a new government in Kabul comes up to their expectations. He goes on to describe the many failures on the part of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) based in Pakistan, and outlines the necessity, as he sees it, of a group of non-partisan Afghans to woik out a solution to break the deadlock preventing peace.
The vital question of economic reconstruction is covered in diverse contributions, which agree that peace has to come before the most important stage of rebuilding Afghanistan begins in earnest Martin Barber of UNOCA restates the progress of the UN and NGOs over the past decade. In spite of all the obstacles, an encouraging beginning has been made. The infrastructure, both physical and human, is now in place for implementation of major rehabilitation programs, but it is vital that peace is made now, before the international community loses patience.
An Afghan perspective is provided by Engineer Abdul Rahim, director of Reconstruction Authority for Afghanistan. He suggests a planning
commission of Afghan experts backed up by advisers from Muslim countries and the UN, focussing on the country's smashed infrastructure of roads and irrigation systems. Fazl-ur-Rahman, a fellow of QSI, points to the basic ambivalence of Afghan attitudes towards international aid. Afghan suspicious of donor agencies' involvement in Afghan politics has made for a 'problematic relationship'. Rather than being seen as a potential unifying influence, the aid givers and their organizations can be seen to be divisive. Pakistan, he claims, has considerable potential to help with highly skilled manpower, helping with higher education and health in particular.
The last section of this book looks to the future. Professor Rasul Amin, formerly of Kabul University, writes on the future shape of Afghan society, and the challenge of nation-building in 'a commonwealth of people and cultures.' The many formidable socio-culiural problems are also addressed by Amin. The emergence of ideological parties is a major new element, he writes, which has further fragmented tribes, ethnic groups and sects, and presents problems for political restructuring. Amin warns, "Afghanistan cannot afford a political system based on cultural units though a division of power along administrative lines would be feasible.
De Imtiaz H Bokhari of ISSI stresses the care needed by Pakistan in future relations with an Afghanistan restored to full independence. It should not force the pace in negotiations, and its officials should be alive to the sensitivity of bilateral relations. Above all.
warns Bokhari, Islamabad must not be perceived to be assuming the role of a "big brother".' To date, these has been an almost total failure of past plans and bold visions (often fantasies) of regional economic integration in Asia and other wide regions, as well as of the OIC grouping. Nor can too much realistically be expected from a new suggested grouping of its neighbors Iran, Pakistan and possibly Turkey in a Muslim Common Market.
The economic potential of Afghanistan is the subject of a highly realistic contribution by Professor Volker Nienhaus of Bochum University. In spite of the manifest inequality of previous Soviet-Afghan economic relations, with exploitation of Afghanistan - especially with the Muslim Central Asian republics of the former USSR - can be more equal and mutually beneficial.
Whether they like *it or not, Afghans have become effectively dependent on Soviet technology at least into the medium-term. German aid could take the form of provision of a range of Soviet technology, either free or at highly concessionary terms, from those many plants of the former German Democratic Republic which have become effectively redundant since re-unification of the two Germanies. Present a 'shopping list' of Soviet technology to the German government, as soon as a new government is in place in Kabul, advises Neinhaus, and the Germans will do what they can. Before the 1979 invasion, the West Germans were the biggest Western provider of development aid to Afghanistan, next to the USA. Could it be that they will soon take up this position once again?
Anthony Hyman
Courtesy: ARIN