 AFGHAN NEWS
 No,
 31-3-1985
 P-19
 March-23-1985.            '
 A -large, Soviet convoy including 82 trucks loaded with aeroplane bombs was destroyed at Clang village (two-three km South of Salang tunnel). Mujahideen had ..planted a time bpmb. in. one of the trucks which was carrying explosivesc
                                s’Y ■ ■■
 This explosion was planned in a large parking place where Soviet convoy used to park at night or launch their offensive from. Large Soviet supply convoys do not us\ of"'fakr*'o¥J I^ujahiSeen ambushes.
 Soviet supply convoys do not usually move after three p.m because
 The report says that in the first step 82 trucks along with some oil-tankers were destroyed.
 The i^p<nit-'mantdlons ;that..theuexplo-sion.vrasul.tsd.ein-therutieatrueiEion. of about 280 vehicles including tanks and APCs, It also caused the death of about 120 DRA, 280 Soviet soldiers, 9 Soviet families and 8 high-ranking officers who were preparing for the Salang offensive.
 Four local Salang houses were destroyed and the highway was closed.
 The. report considers the explosion: unprecedented.
                                          PANJSHtR VALLEY
 According to, a report Soviet forces have used new kinds of mines in their recent attacks on Chemal Warda of Rukha.
 No details have yet been.given.
 March-8-85
 In an operation by Mujahideen of Panjshir at Rukha, a Russian high-ranking military officer, who has been involved in all 1984 Panjshir operations was killed along with a number of enemy soldiers. In this operation four araoured tanks were also reportedly destroyed. The deaid body of the officer was flown back to Khuja Rawash (Kabul Airport) and then to Soviet Russia.'       .
 March-15-8-5*                                *
 In retaliation to the above-mentioned operation, the Russians attacked Chemal Wardra.'The: fighting which lasted for five days resulted in the beath of about. 60 enemy soldiers. A further number were injured, The report says. that one Mujahid was martyred and some others wounded-.
                               TAKH^^ PRO VINCE Feb_14-Karch-6-85                                           : 1
 A- series of operations have taken place in different areas of Takhar province. In one of these which was launched in Taleqan city by Mujahideen of Jamiat and which lasted for ten hours, at least 2 tanks and some other fighting trucks were destroyed. Sixenemy soldiers were killed and four wounded