AFGHANews Vol 7, No 20, October 15,1991, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Zulmai
Sayyed Fazli Azim Mujaddidi, Zulmai had migerated to Pakistan mown as Zulmai, is the commander of in 1981. He went to India for six month Jami'at in the center District of for medical treatment He spent the rest Badakhshan Province. He controls an of his time working in Jami'at office in area with a population of 4000 families Peshawar, and 600 aimed Mujahideen.	He was very
When Com-
mander Sayyed 4ajmuddin brought District under his control in 1988, the people of Jorm asked him to appoint Zulmai as	their
commander.
Zulmai has shown that he is suited for the job.
Being a member of Mujaddidi family, he is respected by the people. His
family also has been active against the local communists. His father, Ghulam Hujjatulla Mujaddidi, had defeated Mansoor Hashimi, a famous Khalqi leader in the elections for the membership of the national assembly during the rule of the former king. His cousins, Musa Khan and Qazi Ahmad, had played a leading role in die uprising against the communist regime in Jorm. Zulmai treats the people very kindly.
Jorm has not been an easy place to rule. It was in turmoil for several years. Power- struggle between die local Mujahideen commanders led to the death of several famous commanders in the district Peace returned to the valley after it came under control of Sayyed Najmuddin. Schools and hospitals are opened and construction works on some agricultural projects are in progress.
Before becoming the commander of Jorm, Zulmai spent some time with Commander Masood. He wanted to go to Jorm from Pakistan with 30 of his Mujahideen in 1984 when he met with Commander Masood in Panjshir. He advised him not to go to Badakhshan due to internal strife there. He decided to work in the Political Department of the Supervisory Council in Khailah Valley, Eshkamish District Since he was an expert on use of maps, Masood asked him to prepare models of the Kalafgan and Kuran garrisons. They were the target of the Mujahideen attacks. His work helped Masood to plan his operations better. After the fall ,of Kuran, Zulmai returned to Pakistan to join his family who lived in Chitral.
active against the Kabul regime and Soviets when he was a student of Darul Moallimeen (teacher training college) and later the student of the Geography Department of the Faculty	of
Literature at the Kabul University. He had established contact with Ahmad Shah Masood through Sher Aagha. a photographer who was martyred in Panjshir in 1982. He also paid a one-week visit to Peshawar to meet with Prof. Rabbani and talk to him about work in Kabul. He took an active part in organizing secret cells among the students fen collecting information and sabotage activities. He was arrested twice by the regime security forces but was released due to lack of evidence.
He was arrested, for the third time, after he had finished his studies in the university. He spent one year in jail on charges of affiliation with Jami'at Islami. After release he migrated to Pakistan.
Zulmai had joined the Islamic Movement when he was a student of Gheyasi High School in Jorm. He was encouraged by two teachers, Amanuddin and Musa Khan, to join the Movement Two communist groups, Khalq and Seram Milli were very active iri Jorm. Since he was coming from a spiritual family, the communist hated him.
He was bom 33 year ago in Qala-i-Gunbad, a village in the center of Jorm. He is married and has one child; His family lives in Jorm.
Refugees attacked in Germany
Afghan refugees living in Germany have escaped unhurt from attacks by German racist youths opposed to foreign refugees. Several thousands Afghan refugees, including some prominent former political figures, live in Germany.
P^Ftatidr: NWP5* Govertt^i:T^.:-General (Retd) Fazel Haq was killed in Peshawar on October 3 by tm-iknowo gunmen. He was a member] jof the Provincial Assembly of
(Sfp.	'	'(■
I IBs family has registered a case against two Pakistani Shia leaders land one Iranian diplomat. Iran has denied the involvement of his diplo-l mat in the murder.
- General- Faze! Haq supported Afghan Jehad during his seven years [of rule in the NWFP of Pakistan.
■ ••• lljP Iranian Embassy in Kabul has donated 4,500,000 Afghani to the] [Kabul regime. Radio Kabul report-
over by Mohammad Ebrahim
■■an. Charge tf affairs of Iran in | to Saleha Etamadi, the| Minister of Work and Social
*5__ ' .	-	•••••	    ;	:	*
intended to support Watan I Kindergarten. Iran has given similar.
p/. .v/.-XjPi
Mohammad Zahir, the framer
(his readiness to return to Kabul if Najib announced the date on which. ' he and fas government would resign.! This is the clearest signal the former Lking has given I to Afghanistan.*
return
; *y'':'"l	"Tl
Afghan Airlines who accompanied | pie'.PrtBw Mihisterpf the regime ia| ■■■i^iroNcw York to attend the
has
Asylum in the" 3	|
secodtysityatiwtiB Kabul.
I	/
Riel shortage has reduced the I number of bombing ntisskm^of the I regime planes from 600 sorties perl I day to 150. The coup in Moscow I caused delay in supply of fitel to I Kabul The supply of fuel to Kabul I has been resumed bat in a 4ducedl
mm