AFGHAN NEWS VOL,111, NO. 15&16, 15/8/87 PAGE 3
 groups and organizations, local community, national-government, and international community. At the national level, it couldbe applied to the question of appointment/ election of the head of the state. Who should be elected, how and for how long are not specified by the Quran and the Sunna (traditions of the Prophet). Thus, they can be decided by the members of a society according to the conditions of their time and society.
 Two main criteria are Taqwa (piety, God-consciousness) and knowledge. In regard to who can take part in the elections, the wording of the above-mentioned verse is general and could apply to both men and women. Moreover, the practice of women taking the oath of allegiance at the time of the Prophet clearly indicates that they are eligible for polotical activities.
 7. The Islamic government derivers its legitimacy from the verse of the Quran that "Obey God, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you” (4:59) This obedience is not unconditional, however.
 The wording of the verse mentioned and also its continuation show that the obedience of the authority is conditional to the authority's obedience of the teachings of God and His Messenger. Moreover, there are Sayings of the Prophet according to which no obedience is due to unreasonable orders or orders that contradict the commands of God.
 There is also a verse of the Holy Quran which tells the Muslims women that while they are taking the oath of allegiance to the Prophet they say ”... and we vOT 11 not disobey you in just matters" (60:12). Hopefully the implication of the verse is clear because there is not enough space to elaborate the point.
                             JAMI AT EXPRESSES REGERET OVER THE Makkah tragedy
Jamiat islami Afghanistn sent identical telegrams to Hujatul Islam Ali Khamenaie, the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, and King Fahd of Saudi Arabia in regard to the recent tradedy in Makkah. Following is the text of the telegrams:
"We deeply regeret the tragic event in Makkah on july 31 and express to you and the people of your country our condolences and sympathies. May Allah bless the souls of those who lost their lives in that unfortunate incident and grant patience and forebearance to their famiilies and relatives.
We hope our brothers in the Islamic Republic of Iran and Saudi Arabia resolve the problems arising from this tragedy in a spirit of brotherhood and according to the lofty teach-i ngs of Islam.”
jamiat islami Afghanistan also sent a telegram to Mr. Shara-fuddin Peerzada, the General Secretary of the Organization of Islamic Conferences, in regard to the above issue. The following is its text: