AFGHANews Vol 8, No 18 & 19, October 1,1992, page ©
Kabul denies arming Taj ik insurgents
The Islamic Government of Afghanistan has rejected the allegation of the security forces of Tajikistan that Tajiks fighting against the Dushanbe regime are being trained and armed in Afghanistan.
Security forces of CIS states which are responsible for the security of the Tajikistan border with Afghanistan claimed on September 22 that they arrested 600 armed Tajiks who were returning from Afghanistan. Four hundred others managed to cross the border undetected, they said.
A statement of the foreign ministry in Kabul said the Islamic government was not interfering in the affairs of its neighbors and it was not involved in training and arming of foreign nationals. The Islamic government was in favor of stability in the region, the statement said.
Armed clashes between supporters of the communist regime and groups demanding an Islamic and democratic government have been reported in southern parts of Tajikistan.
A statement by Lhe head of Tajik TV ,casts doubt about the claims of security forces of the CIS states. He told the BBC that the government in Tajikistan was not aware of armed groups entering the republics. He added that such allegations arc made by
the forces of the CIS states in Moscow.
While the government has no intention to arm and train outside forces some parties, especially those opposed to the Islamic government, might have tried to help insurgency in Tajikistan. The number of armed men claimed in the statement of the security forces seems to be highly exaggerated.
In a related development, Afghans living in Tajikistan have complained about lack of security in that republic. Armed groups attack foreign nationals to lake their property. Such incidents even taken place in broad daylight in the streets of Dushanbe. It seems that Tajik security forces do little to stop such things.
There are around 300,000 Afghans living in Tajikistan. Some of them are officials of the - previous regime and their families. These refugees arc safe because they have contact wiLh government officials. Their only worry is political instability in Tajikistan and Lhe uncertain situation of the former communist regime.
Other Afghans who do not have contact with Tajik government officials arc facing tremendous security problems. Since Tajikistan has not signed lhe convention of support to refugees, no Afghan refugee can ask for economic support.
ebrated in Kabu
Tho annual International Tourism Day was celebrated by the Afghan Tourist Organization (ATO) in Kabul on September 27.
To mark the day, a meeting was held in the head office of ATO. Speakers talked about the history of tourism in the country, importance of tourism in national economy' and the introduction of Afghan culture to Lhe rest of the world. They also proposed ways of rehabilitating this industry.
ATO was founded in Afghanistan in 1957 and became a member of the World Tourist^ Organization (WTO) two years later. The headquarters of WTO is in Madrid.
Tourism was becoming an important source of income for Afghanistan before the communist coup of 1978.
The negative altitude of communists towards tourists, the majority of whom were Westerners, and the deteriorating security situation due to Lhe start of war between the Mujahideen and the communist government ended the flow of tourists to Afghanistan.
With the establishment of the Islamic government and improvement in the law-and-ordcr situation in the country the prospects for ihereyivaloflour-ism are brighter.	V
Afghanistan has good climate, beautiful natural scenery, historical monuments and hospitable people.
The people of Afghanistan have gained a worldwide reputation in fighting for their freedom which will help development of tourism in the country.
General Rafia busted, freed
General Rafai, the Vice President of the former communist regime, was captured by the security authorities at Kabul airport as he intended to fly to India with a bogus passport.
Rafai, who belongs to the Khalq faction of the Communist Party, served as a member of politburo of the PDPA and as the Defence Minister of the regime for some time.
He did not support Shah Nawaz Tanai's coup against Najibullah's regime. General Rafai flew toLogar to meet Hikmatyar a few days before the fall of Kabul to Lhe Mujahideen. He struck a secret deal with Hikmatyar allowing his men infiltrate the city. -
After the failure of Hezb Islami to capture Kabul, Rafai went under ground. Many people thought that he might have joined Hezb, but later it ber came clear that he was staying with a local commander of Jami'at . in Paghman who tried to help him escape from Kabul.
Rafai was released after a brief custody in line with the amnesty announced for those officers of lhe, former regime who refrained from activi ties against the Islamic Stale.
UN Afghan coordinator apppointed
Mr. Sotirios Mousouris has assumed his responsibilities as the personal representative of the UN Secretary-General in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
His responsibilities also include the overall direction and administration of the office for the coordination of UN humanitarian and economic assistance programs relating to Afghanistan.
Mr. Mousouris is a Greek national and joined the UN in 1966 as an econo mist. In March 1992, he was appointee assistant secretary-general in the newly established department of political affairs, responsible for the functioning of the general assembly and for political affairs for the Americas, Europe and East Asia.
He replaces Benon Sevan, the former UN coordinator, who was relieved of his duties after the failure of his mission . to make peace between the Mujahideen and the former communist regime.