■■ ■ c; AFGHANews Vol 8, Nos 21 & 22, November 15, 1992, page Q |	
Hezb Islami kidnaps Mawlawi Mansoor Mawlawi Nasrullah pid bodyguards of Mansoor". Mansoor, the Governor of According u> Hezb, the opponents Paktia Province, the Head of of Mansoor had laid an ambush on the Peace Commission of Southern road and the Hezb forces wanted to Provinces and the Vice S|op Mansoor from going to Gardez for President of Harakat-i-Inqilab his own safety . Hezb put the blame of Islami, was kidnapped by killing of Mansoor's bodyguards on Hezb Islami in Charasyab on themselves but failed to give an expla-November 10 While he was nation for the theft of money, travelling from Kabul to ^ ^ ^dicaiions that Hezb uaraez. was ^gjy wj(h Mawlawi Mansoor and In the ambush laid by Hezb, two ^ incident is an expression of this an-of his bodyguards were killed, 15 were ger Hezb has ^ {Q dislodge wounded and about S400,000 cash car- hlansoor from his post as the governor ried by the governor was looted. 0f paktia with the help of some other When the news of the ambush commandcrs, including Jalaluddin reached Kabul, some Mujahideen lead- Haqqani Hezb faj|cd ,0 rcmove ers and religious scholars rushed to from his post, mainly because save him. At the beginning, Hikmatyar hc is supportcd by people in refused to release him, but under pres- Qar(jez sure from Ulama he set him free after _ * . , , r -• • * xx i • The second point which made 10 hours of captivity. Mawlawi ■_ w . .. \r u , u , ju Hezb angry was Mansoor s position Mansoor returned to Kabul, shocked by . 6 3.. . . , L , . _	.. ., . over ihe withdrawal of Hezb forces the unexpected incident. . , „ , . YT . . ... T „ - . ,. . from around Kabul. He had said that In a press conference held in TT _ . . . , . „ , , w M Hezb has to.leave the Kabul area in re-Kabul, Mansoor denounced the action - , ... . r . j t. j-j' . ^u u:v . turn for the withdrawal of units of and said he did not think Hikmatyar . •• _ ¥r . . _ • was so mad. Hc called Hikmatyar a Dms.on 53. He was the only Pushtoon "murderer’ and a "robber" and asked *adcr wl» ^ a Pubhc pos.uon on . ... ... . . i the issue of the full implementation of the Mujahideen panics to take a com. . _ v . . ...... the ceasefire agreement. He raised mon stand against him. , b . . 7. w questions about the sincenty of According to Mansoor if the 7,., . , . Tn . . , j tri . Hikmatyar in implementation of its Ulama had not pressured Hikmatyar 1 1 for his release, he would have been terms' killed. He said his kidnapping was incident of Charasyab in-aimed at sabotaging the peace process, creased the tension between Hezb and Hikmatyafs action made members Harakat forces in various ^ of thc of Harakat and other parties extremely country, especially in Paktia Province, angry. This is the first incident of its There *s possibility of armed clash-kind in the history of Jehad in which ^ between the two sides, the leader of an Islamic organization The mild reaction of Harakat to has been disgraced by another party. earlier incidents of Laghman and The reactions of Hezb were self- Maidan might have encouraged contradictory' Qariburrahman Saeed, a Hikmatyar to indulge in abduction of Hezb propagandist, called Mansoor a die Vice President of that party, pro-militia personality who served the Harakat liberated Laghman and interest of Iran. But later Hezb tried to Maidan from the communist regime in soften its position by describing the in- April but Hezb drove that party from cident as an accident provoked by "stu- both provincial capitals by force.	Editorial From page (4) ing to Kabul. Hekmatyar's goal is to weaken the government. Hikmatyar is obliged, under the terms of the ceasefire agreement, to keep the roads open. But under the pretext that the food and fuel reach "communists" and "militias" in Kabul, he has blocked the roads. As a result of this roadblock the prices of food and fuel have skyrocketed. The people in Kabul and other parts of Afghanistan are afraid of acute shortages of food and fuel during the coming winter. The Islamic government uid its defense ministry have tried to solve thc issue through political means. The defense ministry has abstained from use of force to open roads and escort supply convoys by army units, which are measures appropriate to times of war. But banditry along the highways has intensified, and some other outlaws, encouraged by Hezb’s actions, have begun to follow suit. The time has come to reconsider the government's self-restrained policy in dealing with the highway problems. Waiting longer could endanger the lives of innocent citizens, and already is being interpreted as a sign of government. It seems that the issue cannot be solved without the use of force. Thc defense ministry should prepare plans for military operations, which must then be authorized by the Leadership Council. The party leaders should realize thc seriousness of the situation and urgently adopt a workable joint policy towards this problem. Some leaders, including a Deputy Prime Minister and a Vice President, had called the defense of Kabul against Hezb's attacks., as "a war between Hezb and Jami'at”. It is to be hoped that they will not adopt a similar attitude towards the vital issue of opening roads. A government which fails to provide essential commodities to its people loses credibility in the eye of its citizens. Such a development is not only dangerous for the transitional government but also poses a serious threat to law and order, and endangers the process leading to an elected government
[Russia rejects Hezb's allegations The Russian Federation has turned down plea by Hezb Islami leader to I stop printing Afghan currency and said it would continue to do so under an in-I ter-govemmental agreement with Afghanistan. Responding to a letter written by Hikmatyar, the Russian ambassador in i Islamabad, Mr. Yakunin, said Russia was printing and supplying thc Afghan [ currency to the present government of Afghanistan in accordance with the in-1 ter-govenunental agreement on the basis of a commercial contract He denied Hikmatyar’s assertion that printing of Afghanis in Russia with-1 out gold reserves as backup was intended to further destabilize Afghanistan ec-i onomically. "On the contrary it represents a good example of cooperation be-J tween the government of the Russian Federation and the government of i Afghanistan," the envoy remarked.	