            NEWS
                                       KUITDUZ PROVINCE
 5-1-86
 Soviet-DRA forces attacked Qasab village in Chardara District .
 Fighting took place between then and the Mag abideen. About 30 soldiers were killed or wounded. Two Mujahids were injured.
 15-12-86
 Soviet-DEA forces launched an offensive against Mujahideen of Takhar.
 The enemy forces were composed of 500 tanks, APCs and trucks which were supported by Jets and Helicopters. The enemy was to attack the Hugahidin in Taluqan area first and then proceed to Ferkhar, Kalafgan and Kishra. Mujahideen of Jamiat in Taluqan fought well, 15 tanks and trucks were destroyed and GO enemy soldiers and officers including Soviets were killed. Four Mujahids were martyred and six others were wounded. Twelve civilians were also martyred . The enemy force enetred Farkhar . The Mujahideen continued to resist. Five tanks were destroyed by land mines.
 Mujahideen performance end cooperation in this engagement was admirable As a result of this operation many villages were destroyed . The aerial bombardments of the area.is still continuing.
 Farkhar is. a. district of Takhar , Kalafgan is a sub-district of Takhar and Kishm is a district of BadaLchshn province located between Takhar and Faizabad the provincial capital of Badakhshan province.
                                    N^GARHAR^PROVINCE
 On 21th of January a group of refugees from the North of Afghanistan ,
          enxoute Pakistan, were attaclced by Soviet planes in Ghawgeez area of Kes-
 arak district of Ilangarhar province. Eleven persons including children *
 ■women and old people were killed and a big'number of them were injured.
                                     t
 These types of shameless a.ctions are in conformity with the general policy of genocidq which Soviets are carrying on in Afghanistan.
                     MUJAHIDEEN DELEGATION RECEIVED
 The president of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Ayatullah Khomanaey, received a delegation of Mujahideen on January 4th and exchanged 'views with them . The Mujahideen delegation was headed by prof.3.kabbani, leader of -Jamiat Is1ami Afghanistan.
 The president praised the people of Afghanistan for their struggle . He rejected the idea of talking with the puppet regime. He mentioned that any solution to the problem of Afghanistan cannot be achieved without the participation of Afghan people .
 It should be noted that more than one million Afghan refugees are living in Iran, and we have historical, cultural and religious ties with Iranians. Iran strongly supports the participation of Mujahideen in any dialogue for a pes.ceful settlement to the problem of Afghanistan,