npcitnjuEHeucL.Mi, »o.t3, \m 1907 pace 9
 the streets. Parents have been arrested for refusing to let their children go.
 Almost nothing is knovn about vhat happens to these children when they arrive in the Soviet Union. Some Afghans speculate that the term of study will be shortened because of strong resistance from the children, of anguished fare veils at Kabul Airport and of children so homesick that they had to be sent home.
 The Soviet, if successful in their indoctrination of the young, vill at best produce a relatively small elite cadre of communist sympathizers. The Afghans, on the other hand, are preparing millions of young people for a fight to the finish in a struggle that seems destined to continue for many years
                                      NAM MIS-USED BY COMMUNISTS
 These days the puppet regime talks about a so-called International Conference of the non-aligned countries journalist being held in Kabul. The Soviet and regime's Radio and Television highlight the event as a victory for their policies.
 The main theme of the propaganda is:
 Journalists participating in the conference support the regime. They condemn outside interference in the affairs of democratic Afghanistan. They vere impressed by political, economic and Social achievements of the regime. The journalists felt the need for the presence of the Soviet forces in Afghanistan.
 It seems that the participants of the so-called conference are not journalist but political activists on the Soviets pay roll. A journalist reports vhat he sees and let others form opinions. It is interesting to see that in introduction of each journalist. Kabul Radio gave them the title of comrade, a title vhich is given only to communists.
 During the conference Zimbabwe stgned an agreement of cooperation vith the puppet regime in the field of journalism. Robert Mugabe, the chairman of NAM vho is a Marxist has rendered his services for the Soviet expansionist policies in Afghanistan and this so-called International conference is part of that. Soviets and the communist element in the NAM (Mugabe In the position of the current chairman of the organization) will use the name of this movement to Justify their crimes against humanity and in this vay discredit the movement The silence of other members of the movement about mis-using the name of NAM is deplorable
                                        FROM THE DIARY OF JEHAD
We were busy photographing the religious books vhich were deliberately hit by Soviet soldier in the largest mosque of the Panjshir volley in the town of Rtikha in the summer of 1981. The caretaker of the mosque vho was an old man of about 80 was taking the books in his hand to be photographed. The old man was burned to death by the Soviet soldiers 3 months later.
                                                 I
Commander Abdul Wasay - the commander of the area - whispered in my ear that «i enemy column Js proceeding along the valley towards the only garrison the enemy possessed in the town . The commander gave the necessary orders to his men . Everybody thought that the column was part of a big force and expected anew major offensive.
The column which was protected by gunship Helicopters reach the town. Mujahideen ambushed the column. The commander fired two RPG-2 shells at an APC and set it on fire. An oil tanker and a truck were set on fire too. Everybody did a good job but the work of four people was extra-ordinary.
Commander Wasay was firing RPG-2 Payanda Mohammad a 17 year old boy who had his first experience in the war. together with Gulhaider fought without taking cover.