 AFGHAN NEWS VOL. II__________NO. 10       15-5-1986________P-2
   Loss of family members and friends is painful, but more painful is the disturbance to pur spiritual life. The struggle in Afghanistan is to preserve that frQia the destructive designs of the Soviet infidels. The light of Islam will finally defeat the darkness of Communism and tyranny.
              REPLACEMENT OF BABRAK WITH NAJIB
                   NOT A POLICY CHANGE
   The change of individuals within the puppet regime does not repre- ■ sent a change in Soviet policy in Afghanistan. These types of changes are common among Communist regimes. Usually Soviets appoint servants when they think will serve them, and when they are no longer useful or; a better servant is found,they discard them. The replacement „of one puppet by another in Kabul is a game through which the Soviets want to decieve the world on the eve of the Geneva talks and give the world false hopes of a change in policy.
   We do not believe in any policy change unless the whole regime has gone avid all the;Soviet troops have left our country. Najib is a true servant of the Soviets, who has worked with KGB for many years.He only brings more problems to the Afghan nation. History will repeat itself and he will faca the same end as Taraki, Amin and his close friend Babrak,
                  NEWS FROM THE BATTLEFIELD
                      PARWAN PROVINCE 14-4-1986                      ™”~''
 The enemy attacked Mujahideen controlled areas in Bagram District. As the result of Mujahideen resistance 12 tanks and trucks of the enemy were destroyed with RPG fire or land mines. An unknown number of soldiers (mainly Soviets) were killed. Reports do not mention Mujahideen casualties.
 24-4-86
 About 300 enemy soldiers (mainly from the puppet array) attacked Mujahideen controlled areas. Fighting took place in Deh-Mazar village, 8 enemy soldiers were killed and seven others wounded.
 27-4-86
 Mujahideen attacked Charikar city with mortars. The purpose of the att ack was to disturb the Parcharai celebration of the 27th April Coup. No figure for enemy casualties has been given.
                            HERAT PROVINCE
 29=4-86
 Mujahideen of Herat attacked the border post of Qalai Ghazi. Twelve soldiers were killed and 14mothers injured. Mujahideen captured a large amount of arms and ammunition.