Vol 6, No 23	December	1,1990
Leaders end visit to Tehran
Three Mujahideen leaders. Prof. Mujaddidi, Prof. Rabbani and Pir Gailani, who had gone to Tehran for discussions with the Wahdat Party and Iranian officials, have left that country.
They met with Iran's religious leader, Ayatullah Khamenaei, President Rafsanjani, and Foreign Minister Velayati. Iranian leaders, while praising achievements by the Mujahideen, advised their leaders to forge unity among themselves so that their achievements will not be wasted.
They held several rounds of talks with the Wahdat Party and it was decided to form a joint commission: to work out a unified election program. They also agreed to form a Political Committee to propose and initiate political activities in support of Jehad. The proposals for the formation of the committees have been submitted by Mujaddidi for the approval of the AIG.
Prof. Mujuddidi also paid a four-day visit to Herat where he met with Ismail Khan. President Mujaddidi visited Ghoryan and Enjeel districts where he addressed the Mujahideen and people. The Mujahideen in Herat expressed their displeasure over the aid policies of the parties, and complained that they were being ignored.
In a press conference in Peshawar, Prof. Mujaddidi praised the achievements of the Mujahideen of Herat in the education and health fields. He also found the Mujahideen well-disciplined and united.
At the end of the visit to Tehran, Prof. Rabbani paid a visit to United Arab Emirates where he took part in a seminar discussing the Gulf situation. The seminar was organized by the National Union of UAE students. Pir Gailani Jlew to London via Rome, where he met with the former king._
UN asks Mujahideen leaders to review their peace policy
KGB soldiers fight for Najib
An American professor says the US government turns a blind eye to the Soviet's increasing involvement in support of the Kabul regime because of improvement of relations between Moscow and Washington in other areas.
Raulph Magnus, a professor at the Naval Postgraduate Institute in Monterey, California, told a conference in San Antonio, Texas, that the main reason for the survival of the Kabul regime was increased military and economic support by the Soviet Union.
The conference was sponsored by the Middle East Studies Association of the University of Texas.
Prof. Magnus said that although the Soviet soldiers had left Afghanistan, that country's military advisors were helping the Kabul regime in many activities, including firing SCUD missiles.
He said Najib defends Kabul with the help of 10,000 soldiers from Central Asia, who are led by KGB officers. The soldiers are chosen from among Uzbak and Tajik ethnic groups to give the impression that they are Afghans.
Prof. Magnus revealed that small groups of Soviet Central Asian soldiers are stationed in different parts of the northern Afghanistan for the purpose of waging a guerilla war with die help of local communists once the Kabul regime is defeated. He believes that the KGB implements the Soviet policy in Afghanistan because Najib is a longtime KGB agent.
Prof. Magnus, who lived in Afghanistan before the war for many years and has written articles on the subject, said one might ask why the US government was silent about Soviet involvement in Afghanistan. He said the American government kept silent to assist improving relations with Moscow in other areas.
He said Soviet economic assistance given to the Kabul regime is being used to bribe resistance commanders and sow discord among them.
The UN Secretary General's special envoy on Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, has asked Mujahideen leaders to review their position on the political settlement of the Afghan issue.
Talking to newsmen in New York, he said Afghan leaders should make personal sacrifices to achieve peace. The UN diplomat said the UN was not imposing an outside solution but it was ready to pave the way for dialogue among Afghans if they wanted it.
Sevan has compiled a report on UN activities for the achievement of peace which has been presented to the UN General Assembly. The UN Secretary General wants the Afghan resistance to . appoint a representative group to negotiate with the Kabul regime.
The UN report asks for the end of outside interference in Afghanistan and the imposition of an arms embargo on both sides of the conflict The UN proposes the formation of a broad-based
government by holding elections.
The Mujahideen accept the idea of holding elections but are opposed to the participation of the Kabul regime, which was brought to power by the Soviet Union.
The UN human rights rapporteur , Dr. Felix Ermacora, has describe the human rights situation in Afghanistan as grave. He was appointed as the UN rapporteur on human rights in Afghanistan in 1984.
He compiled his latest report after visiting Pakistan and Kabul. But Dr. Ermacora's report about changes in Kabul and the formation of a multiparty government does not reflect the true situation. It seems he has taken the claims of the Kabul regime at face value.
Dr. Ermacora also has been misled about the return of refugees. He says that daily, 250 families return to
Turn tb page (2)