AFGHAN NEWS
' •*:, %
€
 ■ ■ ■ : '■ . ,.-a   " ■              •  • . ■
      • No. 1’       ;  ft2~  1985 1            P-2
 ------------------—----------------— -----------------
 ZABITOFLAK^iS_NO_LONGER ‘ WITH US BUT ...
.*1
     The. shocking and grievous news of Mazar’s beloved commander Zabihullah's martyrdom was disclosed by prof.Burhanuddin Rabbani today in Peshawar.
     According to a report one of the. most charismatic, brave and ardent muslim freedom fighters of Afghanistan Zabihullah ,30» was martyred, ‘ albng with his eight Mujahideen by a mine explosion.
 They .were returning in a jeep from a successful anti-Soviet operation at Shoulgar on Deo. 14-1984. Although no details have been sent yet it. is understood that the. mine had been planted either by the Russians or their stooges.
     Although commander Zabihullah's martyrdom will be an immense lose;., his organization and his Unifying ideas will still be a flaming torch to his followers.
     Commander Zabihullah, whose actual mame was Abdul Qadir was a beloved muslim fighter who died for the sake of his faith. Freedom and faith were two elements which inspired him throughout his life to fight against Communism and tyranny.
     Before becoming involved in the anti-Soviet war in Afghanistan, Zabihullah was a teacher. He was loved and respected by his students and the. local ordinary people. When he was a strong commander of Mujahideen he used to tell the people around him that "it is our sacred duty to stand firmly against atheistic, Russian invading forces,whether the; war is prolonged or not.
     To win a war of such a nature it is important to be a Mujahid but it is more important to be able to continue'ta victory.
     Zabihullah was a very effective link between Mujahideen and civilians. He planned to establish hospitals and schools to challenge Communism and the. Sovietiszation, policy of the Russians.He knew very well that the enemy tactic is to superimpose a new culture and faith by uprooting the established culture of the people.
     Zabihullah was strongly in favour of coordinating and unifying tha strongholds of Mujahideen all over Afghanistan. He knew that without a unified battle zone it will be impossible to win the war. His close relations with commander Masoud was a step towards fulfilling this goal.
     Zabihullah's sad demise is not the end of his honourable way. Although he is no longer with us his organization , his ideas and his followers will challenge the enemy.