------------- APGHANews V& 4, NoB, April 13, I960, Page 6
          Holy month of Ramadan showers Muslims with divine bless
      RAMADAN, which starts sometime next week, is a special month for Muslims, it is the ninth month of the Islamic lunar calender. It is the month of light in which the Holy Quran was first revealed in order to guide mat > out of the darkness or ignorance, selfishness and oppression to the heights of consciousness, self-sacrifice and justice.
      The month of the Quran s revelation has been set aside by Islam as a month to exemplify the values taught by the Quran, it is the month in which every adult Muslim (with certain exceptions) must fast from dawn to dusk.
      Islamic fasting means : avoidance from eating, drinking and sexual intercourse. It also means abstinence from using substances which bring
    The Soviet-hacked regime in Kabul considers the holding of recent elections in the occupied areas of Afghanistan a victory but the Resistance rejects it as a political macoeuvef with no real substance
    Parliamentary ! elections started on April 5 and continued for 10 days.
    The Kabul regime's election is part of its political program to gain credibility at home end abroad. The Resistance
changes in one s mood, such as cigarette and snuff, it also means abstinence from doing, saying, hearing and seeing evil and vain acts, talk and conflicts.
    Fasting takes man out of the darkness of ignorance by strengthening in him the highest form of consciousness: God-consciousness. For a Muslim, God-consciousness forms the bases for self-consciousness, social-consciousness and world-consciousness. Fasting puts man in constant touch with the Supreme Being, the creator, and the truth.
    Fasting takes man out of the darkness of selfishness by teaching him self-denial for the sake of higher goals and values. Sacrificing the enjoyment of material life for the sake of God should go
has rejected the elections and celled it a political manoeuver to deceive world opinion.
   Independent observers do not give much credit to the elections because five million Afghans live outside their country, the regime does not control a major portion of the countryside and elections are not democratic.
   The presence of more than 113,000 Soviet , soldiers in the country also creates serious doubts concerning the claims of the regime that the
beyond the days of Ramadhan. Humility before God should translate into humbleness before fellow human beings.
     Fasting takes man out of the darkness of oppression by making him a morally-refined human being. Suffering from hunger wilt make the fasting person more sympathetic towards his deprived fellows. Avoidance of evil and vain acts, talks and conflicts will nourish righteous actions, righteous speech and righteous thought.
     God-consciousness and God-fearing will bring about such an attitude that the Muslim will neither oppress nor will he tolerate being oppressed.
   May Allah enable ail the Muslims to hold such a fast during the month of Ramadhan as we are commanded to and as we are supposed to.
election were free end
fair.
  The regime claims that besides the People Democratic party <the ruling party) some other newly-created parties have also participated in the election. But it is believed that these parties ere not independent end have been created to give a multi-party image to the political system created by the Soviets in Afghanistan.
   All these parties which were created a few months ago support the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and accept the leading role of the PDPA in running the country.They are members of the National front of the regime. *
          Regime holds election