AFGHANews Vol 6, No 8, April 15,1990, page ©
Comment bv:
Habibur Rahman
Afghanistan is not Nicaragua
An APN article , published in Pakistan Times on April 6, on the occasion the 2nd anniversary of signing the Geneva Accords raises many interesting point which need to be discussed. The article expresses the views of the Soviet Government
The article argues that Kabul regime is a reality and that no political solution can be achieved without including it in the process.
No doubt the Kabul regime is still in power, and has survived fcx* a year since the Soviet troop withdrawal. This does not change the fact that the present regime was brought to power by the Red Army.
Before the Soviet invasion Najib and his predecessor, Babrak Karmal, lived in exile. They came to Kabul after the Soviets invaded Afghanistan in December 1979. The Soviets tried to impose these men on the people of Afghanistan but could not do it If Najib and his party are allowed to take part in the future politics of Afghanistan, to what purpose did one million people die in the war against the communists?
The majority of Afghans do not want Najib and his party. He must be tried for all the crimes he has committed in collaboration with his Soviet masters.
Kvery reality is not necessarily acceptable. The Soviet invasion of 1979 was a reality but Afghans resisted it, and finally drove the Soviets out
The second point the paper raises is the positive development of free, fair elections in Namibia and Nicaragua, which could provide an example to help solve the Afghan problem. But the Afghan situation is comparable neither to Nicaragua's nor Namibia's,
Daniel Ortega did not come to power through a superpower invasion
the way Najib did. He is not responsible for killing one million of his own people, as Najib is. Ortega controlled most of the country, while Najib controls only a fraction of Afghanistan. Therefore, the Nicaraguan analogy does not hold in Afghanistan.
The third point about the article is that it gives the impression that the Soviet Union wishes all Afghans well and is concerned about the rights of Afghan citizens on both sides of the conflict.
In reality the Soviet Union is still busy killing Afghans by providing massive quantities of sophisticated weapons to the Kabul regime. Its advisors are helping the puppet army in the war against the resistance and occasionally Soviet warplanes and artillery engage in cross-border operations against the Mujahideen.
The Soviet Union is responsible for every drop of blood that has been shed in Afghanistan, because Soviet involvement, both indirect and direct, ruined Afghanistan's existing political system and brought about the present instability.
In the Taif talks, Yuli Vorontsov, the head of the Soviet delegation, told Mujahideen leaders that he was ready to mediate between the Mujahideen and Najibullah to end the hostility between the two. Prof. Rabbani, the leader of the Mujahideen delegation, told him he could not play the role of a peace broker because he was representing a country which had occupied Afghanistan. "We look upon you as an enemy and there is no question of your acting as a mediator, " Prof. Rabbani said.
Vorontsov was told that the resistance is not ready to deal the communists in Kabul and that there was no need for mediation.
No french ready to serve in Kabul
A shortage of volunteers willing to work in Kabul has postponed the reopening of French Embassy in the Afghan capital
Some time ago, the French president decided to reopen his country's embassy in Kabul, but it has not happened yet
Informed sources say the French government has asked for volunteer diplomats to go to Kabul, but so far nobody has applied for the job.
Gen. Tanai's March 6 coup attempt has made the chances of finding a volunteer to work in Kabul even slimmer.
It is said that the reason the French decided to re-open their embassy was in order to signal Gorbachev that if he behaved nicely in Europe, France would not create problems for him elsewhere.
The decision angered French voluntary organizations supporting war-affected Afghans. To calm them, the French government rescinded a previous plan to cut government funds to these organization by SO percent
SboitNi