	No 13, July 1,1991, page ©
AFOHANews Vol 7,	
';»'*' , i ' ■ ^IMilSi ,\;j™r.;;||^| wwmm m wm.%t Oi ** $;*>■ '' ‘M ?m §#■ .** til *£ jOI> % ■: iiiMil:' & ;■ - ■:. ■■' ; «? ■;>- -<?: ?Vv - I'!-- 1::! -.. ■• s ■• s s > v % 'k:!*■■ ’’■• ■ / ///_ <_ f f >s>%>y£>--s \ Av: s •> ■. ;x$>V ^ •■>	7= "A ' 		^ P Review V			)
Editorial |	RUSSIAN ROULETTE: The Afghanistan War though Russian Eyes; by Gennady Bocharov. Hamish Mailton, London £13.99 "Russian Roulette" begins with a scary incident back in February 1980, just six weeks after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Russian journalist Gennady Bocharov, a distinguished writer for the popular Soviet weekly "Literatumaya Gazeta,” tells how, stranded in the Kabul Hotel, and surrounded by an angry, menacing crowd of Afghans demonstrating against the Soviet invasion of their country, he and other Soviet citizens faced an ugly death. He described it as the worst night of his life. By a weird coincidence, he had been booked into the very room in the Kabul hotel where the unfortunate US ambassador Adolph Dubs had been shot dead the previous year. The walls and door of his room were still full of bullet holes. . Much of this slim little bode consists of reported conversations, brief and to the point The jerky style may be meant to convey the author’s obvious unease and anger. But the crude technique and flatness of the writing might also be due to the translator. Bocharov chose meaningful Biblical texts from Ecclesiastes to head his chapters. His book begins thus: "And I turned myself to behold wisdom, and madness, and folly: for what can the man do that cometh after the king? Even that which hath already been done." He does not try to hide the extent of Soviet involvement in and direction of the war effort in Afghanistan. "Not a single undertaking - be it political or economic — was carried out by the Afghans themselves. Only with the direct participation of Soviet representatives." Bocharov is scornful of much of this Soviet effort. Most of the party advisers, he claims, knew absolutely nothing about the east "The trouble with the advisers was not just that they didn't know Afghanistan. They didn't know something even more important: how to run things in their own backyard, let alone a foreign country." To page (7)
Mujahideen need balanced strategy The world community prefers solving disputes by political means, and the UN has merged as a credible body to deal with these issues. The world community wants to see the Afghan issue resolved through negotiations and with the active involvement of the UN. This is a new development which the Mujahideen must take into account in choosing their political and military strategies. Ignoring it will isolate the resistance and will have a negative effect on foreign support for Jehad. The supporters of the Afghan Mujahideen show keen interest in finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan, and they give more importance to the UN role in finding a solution than in the past. They adopted this approach after they were disappointed by the military performance of the Mujahideen after the Soviet troop withdrawal. Although they do not rule out the use of fence against the Kabul regime, they want the force to be used to bring pressure to bear for a political settlement. For the Mujahideen the crux of the problem is to remove the Kabul regime and to avoid legitimizing the period of communist rule in Afghanistan. If such an objective is achieved through a political process, there is no need for further bloodshed. But the Mujahideen worry that this process might be used to impose a solution that gives legitimacy to the communists. The signing of the Geneva Accords is an example of a deal in which the Kabul regime was given an undeserved degree of legitimacy. Most Afghans believe the UN is the right organization to deal with this issue. Whether UN officials can keqp Afghans’ confidence in them depends on their approach! Some UN officials -- Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan, for example - have made the mistake of ignoring the resistance. The removal of the "Black Prince," as some of his own colleagues called him behind his back, from the office of UN coordinator for Afghanistan was a step in the right direction. His presence would have only intensified bad feelings between the UN and the Mujahideen. In order to keep the good will of the world community on their side, the Mujahideen have to cooperate with the UN without compromising their principles. The Mtijahideen can be politically effective if they unite their ranks. Recent efforts to form a 28-member council representing all resistance groups could be useful if the body proves able to deal with the political issues facing the resistance./ But die Mujahideen and their supporters should not forget the reality of the situation inside Afghanistan. They should bear in mind that the Kabul regime is doing everything possible to gain die upper hand in batde' against the Mujahideen. Attacks in several parts of Afghanistan, despite talk of peace and reconcilia-tion.is evidence of the regime's brutal designs. The Soviet Union supports these efforts through generous military and economic aid to Kabul. They talk peace but spare no effort to strengthen their military position. They know a weak party will not be taken seriously in any political deal. The resistance should not rest It should promote its political activities along with its military program to achieve its ultimate goal. Politics should be complementary to fighting, and vice versa. Experience has shown that when the political front gets hot, the batdefield becomes cold. Party leaders spent most of their time discussing politics at expense of military issues. If such mistakes are repeated, the consequences for the resistance will be dangerous. To page (6)	