flFBHRH HEMS VOL. Ill, MO. 13, 1/7/1907 PMC 2
impression that the var in Afghanistan is close to an end.
All this shores that the Mujahideen have a lot to think about. They hove to continue the var inside and challenge Soviets political designs vhich are aimed at veakening of the resistance. Road to peace is straight forvard. A country vhich vas independent vas invaded. To solve the problem the invaders must leave and let the people of the country decide their ovn destiny.
As long as the Soviets have not accepted minimal conditions put by the Mujahideen. Afghans do not have any other choice than to continue the var at any cost, k is an unpleasant choice but more unpleasant vould be the consequences of an appeasement policy tovards a ruthless pover like the Soviet Union.
                           NEWS
                          FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS

                                      NANGARHAR PROVINCE
During the Holy month of Ramadhan the enemy established some nev posts in Garo area of Goshta district.
On 4/6/87. Mujahideen attacked the mentioned posts vith BH-12 rockets. The enemy suffered heavy losses in men and material, but no details vere available.
On 9/6/1987. Mujahideen from all the parties launched attack against the enemy and destroyed several posts. Mujahideen captured one AA Gun. a 82mm. mortar, an artillery piece of unknovn type and several light veapons. 3 Mujahideen vere Martyred and 9 others vounded. The casualties of the enemy are not mentioned in the report.
                                        HELMAND PROVINCE
23/6/87. Mujahideen from jamiat under the command of Aakhund Zada shot dovn a enemy helicopter in Ainak district killing all the occupants vho vere Soviets.
                                        WARDAK PROVINCE
17/6/87. Mujahideen from Jami at under the command of Hamaisha Gul ambushed an enemy convoy in Shineeza valley as a result of vhich 3 tanks, one A PC and 11 trucks vere destroyed. Tvo DRA officers and tvo soldiers vere captured by the Mujahideen. The number of the enemy casualties vas not immediately knovn. Mujahideen had no casualties.
                                                A**