|v-s s \ IMTJ- ■jaw. JEr 1 "'■'■& :: ■ .1 M i /m 1 i m' ' ■ l-i'; ;•■■ ■ 1 V .*1 /ml m! 	-jlllloLi		vr* tk #*h i £ IV ¥ 4 y-y ^ /4 : ** | WM 3 £>i X 			 1 if illllff Iflllll wt»''WTTm 1m |a| £Ji % M / W: ■ X X ^l l ' *tnigb% Afghanistan
Vol7, No 21 November 1,1991	
Najib forced to fight in two fronts The Mujahideen launched an offensive against the eastern city of Jalalabad two weeks ago to weaken the Kabul regime's resistance in Gardez, Paktia Province. The Mujahideen are making use of ground-to-ground rockets, heavy artillery and tanks in the attacks. They have shot down a jet fighter of the enemy. The Mujahideen's advance, however, has been hampered by heavy aerial bombardments and land mines. The Mujahideen casualties have been limited to SO wounded and dead. The Kabul regime troops fight from concrete bunkers and the members of Party and WAD have been posted in the front line to prevent defection of the conscript soldiers. Meanwhile, the Mujahideen launched an attack on Mehtarlam, the provincial capital of Laghman Province, to help the operation in Jalalabad. The road and power supply to Kabul were cut by the Mujahideen. Meer Pacha, 27, a J&mi'at group commander from Hesarak District, was killed and six other Mujahideen sustained injuries by land mines. He was married and has left behind three children. His family live in a refugee camp in Pakistan. Fighting far control of Gardez has entered the second month. The Mujahideen's attacks are concentrated on security posts around die city and military targets inside Gardez. Sarory, a strategic post southeast of Gardez, changed hands twice. It is now controlled by the Mujahideen. Mohammad Farooq, a commander of Jalaluddin Haqqani, was killed in fighting for control of this post The Kabul regime has intensified aerial bombings and firing of rockets into the Mujahideen positions. It drips napalm and cluster bombs on the Mujahideen. To help the morale of his troops, To page (3)	UN says Najib ready to leave The UN Secretary-General in 1989. The Mujahideen held two oth-has reported the General er rounds of talks with Soviets in Assembly that certain contro- Islamabad but the talks failed to break versial Afghans will not insist the deadlock, on their participation in intra- The decision to send a delegation Afghan talks and in transition- to Moscow was announced after the al administration. Mujahideen leaders met with Prime This was a reference to Minister Nawaz Sharifin Islamabad on Najib's readiness not insist on October 24. Tuiki Al-Faisal, the spe-his role in negotiations and rial envoy of King Fahd, also attended transitional period. the meeting. Prime Minister Sharif en-. The UN chief asked Afghans couraged the Mujahideen leaders to to set aside talks about personali- work for a political solution of the ties and concentrate on conven- Afghan problem. Two Mujahideen ing a broad-based meeting of groups, Hezb Islami (Khalis) and Afghans to define the form of a Ittihad (Prof. Sayyaf) may not send transitional mechanism. their delegation to USSR. Other leaders He admitted in his yearly report believe that holding direct talks with that 13 years of war had created the Soviets will enable the Mujahideen strong feeling against the participation to persuade Moscow to terminate its of certain individuals and groups in the support to illegal regime of Najibullah. intra-Afghan talks but expressed confi- The final communique of the dence that there woe ways to arrange Commonwealth summit in Harare gave direct or indirect talks between people support to political solution of the acceptable to each other. Afghan problem based on the five-The Secretary General has sent his point UN plan. It also asked for contin-special envoy on Afghanistan Mr] ued humanitarian assistance to the Benon Sevan to the region to resume Afghan refugees, his efforts for rinding a solution to the Afghan issue was also discussed in conflict. the meeting held between Prime The Mujahideen have finally Minister Nawaz Sharif and King Fahd agreed on a date and composition of a in Saudi Arabia in Jeddah. Pakistan delegation to Moscow. The delegation tries to coordinate its efforts for a will be led by professor Rabbani and peaceful solution of Afghan problem leave for Moscow cm November 3. The with Saudi Arabia, another supporter of Mujahideen have also agreed on an the Mujahideen, agenda for the negotiations. An interview with Associated Earlier, Prof. Mujaddidi had indi- press. Prof. Mujaddidi accused some cated to lead the Mujahideen delegation Pakistan army officials of interfering to Moscow but the positions taken by in Mujahideen's affair. The accusation him concerning the role of Khahqyar in provoked strong reaction by one the transitional period was objectiona- Afghan leader and some Pakistani pa-ble to some Mujahideen parties. They pers. Hikmatyar dubbed Mujaddidi wanted Prof. Rabbani to lead the (without naming him) as the enemy of Mujahideen delegation in the negotia- Pakistan. The Kabul regime, as usual, tions with Soviet officials. was very quick to exploit Mujaddidi's Prof. Rabbani had led a statement to back up its own claims erf Mujahideen delegation to Jhe first talks Pakistan interference in the internal af-with Soviets held in Taif, Saudi Arabia, fairs of Afghanistan.