AFGHANews Vol 8, No 4, February 15,1992, page O
Mujahideen leaders attend Revolution Day ceremony
The General Consulate of the Islamic Republic of Iran celebrated 13 th anniversary of the Islamic revolution in Peshawar on February 9.
Prof. Rabbani, Jami'at leader. Prof. Mujaddidi, the AIG president, and a number of other prominent Afghan figures attended the function held in Peshawar.
Addressing the meeting. Prof. Rabbani said Iran supported Jehad in the past and there was no reason to justify any change in its position on the issue.
Jami'at leader hoped that the rumors about the changes in the positions of Pakistan and Iran are not true and they continue to support the Mujahideen until the formation of an slamic government in Afghanistan.
Praising the support of Iran and Pakistan for the Mujahideen, Prof. Mujaddidi said these two countries gave all sorts of support to the Afghan people in the past 13 years. He request horn Iranians and Paksitanis to leave Afghanistan for Afghans.
He objected to revolutionary songs sung by Afghan students in which they described Imam Khomeini as their leader. He also commented on the
badges worn by the Afghan students having pictures of lamam Khomeini and Sayyed Ali Khamenei and asked his hosts whether the government of Iran would allow Iranian students to wear badges with picture of Prof. Rabbani or other Afghan leaders. He also enquired whether Iran would allow Iranian students to raise slogans in support of Afghan leaders.
Mujaddidi said: "1 was happy when I saw that Iran has opened a school which teaches Islam to our children, but I was sad that they were being trained as Iranians.1’
Iranian Consul tried to cool down Mujaddidi by arguing that Muslims are <me whether they are Iranians, Afghans or Pakistanis. He told Mujaddidi that he would attend the victory celebrations of Afghan Mujahideen wearing a badge with Mujaddidi’s picture.
The Afghan students who sang revolutionary songs belonged to a school run by the Iranian Consulate in Peshawar. Iranian students also study at this school where the teachers are Iranian and medium of instruction is Persian. Prof. Mujaddidi's remarks has made many Afghans who are worried about outside influence very happy.
France helps Najibullah to communicate better
An automatic telex system began operation in Kabul last month. The system was built by a French private company.
The company is also negotiating with Kabul about establishment of radio communication between Kabul and the provinces.
Hie Kabul regime is planning to establish a ground station for satellite communication with the help of the same company. The station will connect Kabul with rest of the world.
The Kabul regime is seeking the
'Moscow tells Kabul: ^ "Free eduction over"
Afghans studying in Russia have been asked to pay their own expenses in hard currency if they want to continue their studies
In the past, their expenditures were paid by the government of the former Soviet Union. Around 7,500 Afghan students are studying in the Commonwealth of Independent .States.
help of a French private airline in reorganization and development of Aryana Afghan Airlines.
Aryana is seeking permission for landing of its planes in Paris. At the moment, it operates only to Prague and Moscow. Flight of Aryana planes was band to Western Europe when the Kabul regime cooperated with hijackers of a Pakistani plane during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.
A British private firm repaired two Boing -727 planes of the regime recently. One of the planes returned to Kabul with a consignment of passports printed in England.
France was the first Western country to reopen its embassy in Kabul. Western countries closed their embassies in Kabul for security reason days before the withdrawal of Soviet troops in 1989. The Mujahideen strongly criticized reopening of the French embassy and saw it as political favor to the Kabul regime. Narjib visited France in 1990 to take part in a UN-sponsored conference. He was interviewed by French TV and papers.
News of the Battlefields
From page (2)
troops in Shahrak District on January 11, Commander Lai Mohammad reported. The Mujahideen captured four enemy soldiers during this encounter.
Kandahar Province
•The Mujahideen killed six enemy soldiers and wounded many in an attack in Mard Qala area on January 31, Commander Agha Gul reported. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
•Six enemy troops woe killed and three were injured when the Mujahideen of Jami'at fired ground-to-ground rockets into the positions of the regime troops in Herat Darwaza district of the city of Kandahar on January 23, Commander Agha Gul reported.
•The Mujahideen of Jami’at captured six regime troops and seized three Kalashnikov rifles, one ZPU-1 machinegun and one RFG rocket launcher when they attacked an enemy security post in Sufi area of Arghandab District on January 29, Commander Naqibullah reported. The post fall to the Mujahideen.
•Five regime troops woe killed, three were injured and one artillery piece was destroyed when the Mujahideen of Jami’at attacked an ene my post in Naseran, near Kandahar Airport, on February 18, Commander Feda Mohammad reported.
Baghlan Province
Shamsuddin, a militia commander and 16 of his men defected to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Hasan Tal on February 10, Commander Haqjo re ported. They were stationed near the old city of Baghlan. Tension between militiamen was the reason behind the defection.
Airlift continues
Iranian envoy in the United Nations Kamal Kharazi met with the UN Secretary-Genera Boutros Ghali on February 14 and discussed with him the Afghan issue.
Kharazi told Ghali that Iran had sent a total of 22 planeloads of medicine food and clothes to the needy people of Afghanistan. Two planes landed in Kabul while the remaining were sent to the central pari of Afghanistan.