AFGHANews Vol 6, No 3, February 1,1990, page @
News
rtf ft
From the battlefields
Samangan province
On January two, the Mujahideen from Jami'at clashed with communist 1 bices, capturing 20 soldiers and two officers. The Mujahideen set on fire one tank and one jeep, and seized 20 guns.
In retaliating, the communists bombarded the residential areas around the provincial capital, causing material osses.
On January 10, the Mujahideen captured 20 soldiers, killed four and wounded two. They seized 20 guns.
Kandahar province
On January 14, the Mujahideen from Jami'at killed two officers and four soldiers, and wounded nine when they fired with heavy weapons on the enemy positions in Qishla-i-Jadeed.
On January 15, the Mujahideen fired 107mm rockets on the enemy positions in Firqa-i-Kandahar killing 12 soldiers and injuring 18.
On January 11, a land mine destroyed an enemy truck near the airport, killing all its occupants. Four soldiers of a second truck were also killed in the incident and four guns were seized by the Mujahideen.
Herat province
On January 12, the Mujahideen from Jami'at destroyed one tank cn the Herat-Torghundi highway and seized six Kalashnikov rifles, one mortar and one radio set
On January 12, the Mujahideen killed six soldiers and wounded two when they attacked the enemy posts of Herat prison. One Mujahid was killed and two were wounded.
On December 27, the Mujahideen destroyed one tank and captured six enemy soldiers when they attacked enemy troops in Gutran district on the Herat-
Torghundi highway. The Mujahideen seized one mortar, one radio set and six Kalashnikov rifles.
The Mujahideen destroyed four armored cars and six military vehicles and killed six enemy soldiers when they attacked enemy posts near the Herat Cement Factory. Two Mujahideen and four civilians were also killed.
The enemy retaliated by aerial bombardment of the villages controlled by the Mujahideen. Details of the casu aides are not available.
Balkh province
On December 31, six KHAD agents were killed by the urban Mujahideen fighters inside Mazar city .
Mujahideen leader killed
A Mujahideen commander has been killed by unknown men in Parwan province.
Haji Sayed Ebrahim from Harakat Islami (Shakh Mohsini) was killed when his jeep was attacked in Gborband district. Ghorband valley is controlled by Mujahideen.
According to Harakat Islami spokesman in Iran, Commander Ebrahim was a member of the Central Council of that party. He had participated in Kabul uprising of Balahisar in 1979 and in the fighting which resulted in the liberation of Bamyan province last year.
Harakat spokesman said his party suspected involvement of the regime se* cret police and Sayed Mansoor in the assassination of Sayed Ebrahim. Sayed Mansoor is the head of Ismaelia militiamen active along the Salang highway from the Soviet border to North Salang.
The Afghanistan Jehad exhibition was opened by Prof. Sayyaf, the Prime Minister of the Afghan Interim Government, on January 18 in Peshawar.
The exhibition, which was organized by the Ministry of Information of the interim government, displayed photographs, posters, cartoons, drawings, calligraphy, books, periodicals, journals, handicrafts by those handicapped as a result of the war, historical and cultural relics, captured military equipment and video films from the battlefields of Afghanistan.
The exhibition was open to the public from 19 till 24 January. The last two days were set aside for lady visitors only.
Prof. Sayyaf in his opening remarks said that changes in Eastern Europe were triggered by the Afghan struggle against the Soviet Union.
A large number of Afghans and Pakistanis and some foreigners visitec the exhibition and were impressed by it. In addition to the parties within the government, some independent organ! zations also had set up their own stalls, The exhibition hall was dominated by large pictures of famous Mujahideen field commanders.
Most photos and posters highlighted the destruction of the Afghan towns and villages and suffering of Afghan people. Several kinds of anti personnel mines and booby traps used by the Soviet army in Afghanistan were also displayed in the exhibition.
Dr. Najibullah Lafraie, the Information Minister of AIG, said in his opening speech that a similar exhi bition will be organized in Islamabad, Lahore and Kararachi in the near fu tore. This is the first of such exhibi tions organized by the Mujahideen in Pakistan.