AFGHAN NEUS VOL.Ill, HO.9, 1/5/ 1907 PAGE 4
officer were lulled. Mujahideen captured 5 AK 47s and one R-105 communication set. One Mujahid was martyred and ten others wounded.
                                             HERAT PROVINCE
2/4/1987. A lar£<? force of the enemy which was supported by armored units and gunship helicopters attached the Western part of the city. The purpose of the enemy was to drive the Mujahideen from that area. Mujahideen infiltrated the security belt drawn around the city and operated inside the city. Mujahideen are resisting the enemy and fighting still continues. So far no details about the casualties of the two side are available
The year 1986 witnessed several offensives and counter-offensives for the control of * the Western part of city. The enemy was able to build some security posts but failed to-stop the Mujahideen's infiltration into the town. Ismaeel Khan is the Chief Commander of Jami'at in Herat.
                                            FARYAB PROVINCE
23/1/1987. Mujahideen attacked-two enemy posts in Kohi Khana, one Km. East of Maimana city. Nine puppets were captured and one killed. Mujahideen captured 13 guns and some ammunition.
                       THERE ARE BLOOD-STAINS ON THE GORBACHEV SUIT
                                                  ANDERS FANGE
 The evening before going home to Sweden, 1 visited the Afghan poet Khalilullah Khalili. He is 83 years old, now living in retirement in exile in Pakistan, but his poems about the resistance and the war are read all over Afghanistan.
 We talk about tho prospects for peace, and how to interpret the Russian overtures which have succeeded each other during the last months.
 He is not optimistic, thinking that the Russians are playing a political game without any intentions of releasing their hold of Afghanistan. I argue that after all so much has happened 3:7 thero is a mrtp-in cause for hope.
 "How can we hope ?,* he replies. "How can we hope after all the blood, after all those who have died, after all the wrongs these barbarians have done to us. How can we dare believe in anything good about them." "No, for us." he continues, "there is only the possibility of continuing as before, to continue fighting.”
 Twenty-four hours later I was back home in Sweden, where I was informed about what has been said about Afghanistan on television and in the newspapers during the last months.
 Certainly I know already that every now and then the principles within our Swedish mass media leave much to be desired, but never did I believe that it would be enough for a Russian leader, favorable to reform, a Mikhail Gorbachev, who smilingly says a few words about peace in Afghanistan to make us totally forget that the war is still going on, that it is going on with unabated force, that Afghan women and children are still dying and being mutilated, that people are still fleeing in their thousands across the borders away from the terror of the Russian war machinery, that the bombs are still falling and that Mikhail Gorbachev is in fact the highest placed person responsible for that policy for the last two years,
 Just as it was right to shout "Nixon Murderer" during the Viet Nam war, it is right to shout "Gorbachev Murderer" today.