AEGHAKsro Voil Ho 12, Justs 15,1988, Page 11
difficult to clean residential areas from mines.
•	Lack of proper equipment is a problem too. Absence of effective mine-detecting equipments has always been a problem for the Resistance. Despite continuous appeals to the international community for the provision of mine-cleaning equipment, the Resistance was ignored. Many precious lives have been lost and the number of amputees has reached a frightening level. If proper equipment is not provided the casualties will increase and the resumption of normal life will be very difficult.
•	Lack of trained experts to defuse mines is also a problem. In some areas the Mujahideen have developed a level of knowledge to detect and defuse mines but in general tack of expertise is a big obstacle.
Proposal
THE international community must put pressure on the Soviet Union to clean the minefields it has created. Soviets and the puppets which are the signatories of the Geneva accord have promised to help the safe return of the refugees. How can refugees return in safety if their villages and Helds are mined?
•Soviets and their puppets must be as&ed to provi de maps and other information needed to clean the mine Helds.
•	Proper mine cleaning equipment must be provided to the Resistance to enable it to find end defuse mines.
•	Proper training is needed to make the mine cleaning operation salts and effective.
Mujahideen helicopter
SOVIETS have tost hundreds of helicopters in Afghanistan but the creative mind of a Panfshiri technician made one of the shot down helicopters part of a story which will never be forgotten.
In 5984 the Soviets launched two major offensives and fighting continued for several months. A Soviet helicopter was shot down by the Mujahideen in Rukha, the biggest town in Panjshir,
When a temporary ceasefire was agreed upon, the Soviets left Rukha, Among other things they left behind was the body of a Mi-S helicopter on a small airfield which they had built.
When the refugees returned to their villages and started to work on their fields, one farmer saw that part of his field was occupied by the enemy helicopter. He asked the people of the village for help. A large crowd gathered together and moved the helicopter away from the field and placed it close to the road.
A business-minded individual turned the body of the helicopter into an ice cream parlor. People from far distances came to enjoy eating ice cream in the Soviet helicopter. Some visiting journalists from abroad also visited the ice cream shop and wrote stories about it and published its photographs.
Haji Mohammad Amin, a commander of the Mujahideen proposed an Interesting idea. This idea made the helicopter part of a story which will not be forgotten.
Haji Amin's proposal was to change the helicopter into a bus. At first, the idea seemed impractical but
turn Soviet into bus
because it was interesting was approved.
Haji Amin who headed a transport company in the North before the war, had enough technical knowledge to do the job.
Mohammad Amin who later become the commander of Pushghoor region and scored many victories, succeeded in his plan. He fixed the body of the helicopter on a captured Russian truck. By introducing some changes, for example, reducing the length of the tail, taking the rotars off and fixing seats, it become a real bus.
This bus was taking the passengers back and forth along the valley for several months. When the bus which was called by visiting foreigners ’helibus’, passed close to the Soviet base in the lower part of the valley, Soviet soldiers in the base were surprised to see that their helicopter was moving on the road instead of flying in the air. A Soviet defector, who later become Muslim and was re-named Abdullah, took the heiito to reach the Mujahideen's headquarters.
After a few months, Haji was facing the big task of hiding his helibus when the Mujahideen learned that the Soviets were about to launch the seventh offensive. With the help of his Mujahideen he hid the bus hoping to save it from the Russian attack and once more use it when the valley was liberated.
Haji Amin was killed in the fall of 1984 some months before the Mujahideen captured Pushghoor base. He was not able to see his helibus running along the valley but what he did will be remembered for ever.