AFGHANews Vol5, No 9, May 1,1989, page @
Salang
The enemy attacked the Mujahideen positions in Haijan, south of Salang tunnel on April 7.
Twenty five enemy soldiers were killed and two tanks were set on fire. The Mujahideen seized two rocket launchers, three Kalashnikov rifles and one PK machine gun. Two enemy soldiers were captured.
Kabul province
The Mujahideen from Jamiat under the command of Anwar Khan brought a section of the Kabul-Jalalabad road under their control on April 18.
On April 22, the enemy posts on Abrishomi mountain, overlooking the road and Sorobi district, were captured by the Mujahideen.
On April 23 and 24 two enemy attacks to open the road were foiled by the Mujahideen.
The enemy air force bombed the Mujahideen positions heavily.
On April 24 the two enemy posts of Toot and Laki in Tangi Abrishomi were captured by the Mujahideen.
Cutting the Kabul-Jalalabad road will increase pressure on the besieged city of Jalalabad . This is the only road which can be used by the regime for transporting supplies to Jalalabad.
The enemy casualties in the Sorobi fighting are heavy. So far, 100 enemy soldiers have been killed or wounded and six enemy tanks, two armored cars, seven trucks and one bulldozer were destroyed. Forty enemy soldiers and 4 officers were captured by the Mujahideen.
The Mujahideen have captured the following equipment from the enemy:
1-	Kalashnikov rifles 45
2- Light rocket launchers	21
3- PK machine guns	2
4-	Mortar (82mm)	1
5-	R-102 radio sets	4
6-	T.T pistols	4
7-	Telephone	3
The Mujahideen lost five men and 12 Mujahideen were injured. One BM-12 rocket launcher of the Mujahideen was also destroyed by the enemy. Commander Anwar has described the morale of his Mujahideen as high.
Eight soldiers were killed and five captured when the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked their post on Khair Khana pass in the northern outskirt of the city of Kabul on April 7.
Twelve enemy soldiers and officers defected to the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Shaker Dara district, north of the city of Kabul on April 7.
They brought with them nine Kalashnikov rifles, one rocket launcher and one recoilless rifle.
Fourteen oil-tankers caught fire when a time-bomb planted by the Mujahideen from Jami'at exploded in Badam Bagh fuel dump on April 6. The tankers burned for several hours.
Logar province
Kabul regime jets bombarded Logar province killing 26 and wounded 17 on April 7, AMRC reported.
Feda Mohammad, who arrived recently in Peshawar, said that four Kabul regime jets bombed the area of the Deh Now Bazaar in Logar province, killing 26 including 13 women, seven children and six old men.
Feda Mohammad, who also sustained injuries during the bombardment added that some woundeds were brought to Peshawar and some others were under treatment in the Mujahideen's clinic in the area.
Deh Now Bazaar is the place from
where the refugees take Pakistan-bound pick-up cars.
Herat province
An enemy battalion stationed in Ghoryan district defected to the Mujahideen from Jami'at on April 6.
The 300 militiamen headed by Abdullah Jan brought with them 300 light weapons, 40 heavy weapons and 18 trucks and motorcycles.
Ghoryan district is command by Khawja Zabiullah.
Faryab province
About two hundred militiamen have joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at around Maimana, the provincial capital, in the past one month.
They have brought with them large quantities of arms and ammunition. Fighting against the communist posts around Maimana and Qaisar continues.
Sixteen militiamen were killed, 14 wounded and 20 captured when the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked their posts near Maimana, the provincial capital on April 7.
The Mujahideen seized 30 guns and some ammunition. One Mujahid was killed in the operation.
The Mujahideen also fired several rockets into Maimana airport which killed or wounded an unknown number of enemy soldiers and destroyed some buildings.
Both attacks were launched under the command of Maulawi Sayyed Yousuf, the provincial chief of Jami'at Islami in Faryab.
Soviets delay peace
Pakistan has accused the Soviet Union of breaching the Geneva agreement and has demanded that UN posts be established to monitor Moscow’s compliance with the Accords.
Pakistan's envoy, Mr. Shah Nawaz, told the security council meeting that Moscow was creating problems for the peaceful transfer of power to a broad-based government by sending highly sophisticated weapons to the Kabul regime.
Mr. Shah Nawaz asked the UN to establish monitoring posts' along the Soviet border and the major airports in Afghanistan.