Vol 7, No 19	October	1,1991
UN worker
injured in air raid
The aerial bombing of Taliqan by Kabul regime left many killed and wounded in the city of Taliqan on September 4. Among the wounded was Bength Kristiansson, a Swedish national working for the UN.
He was later evacuated by a special UN plane and brought to Peshawar. The UN plane landed in Khwaja Ghar airfield to pick the
Kristiansson. This was the first mission of its type in Afghanistan.
Kristiansson said the Kabul planes bombed the densely populated area of the city. He believes that despite physical risk to the UN worker posed by aerial bombings, their presence in the areas will force the Kabul regime to stop bombing of the civilian targets.
The Kabul regime has justified its bombing of Taliqan on the ground that the Mujahideen had stored their weap-
ons there. Commander Ahmad Shah Masood has rejected this claim of the regime and has said there were no caches of weapon and ammunition in city. The Mujahideen store their arms and ammunition in the valleys. A team of BBC cameramen who were a wit-
ness to the bombing of Taliqan described it as a barbaric action against the civilians. They witnessed bombing
of a bus station, a cinema and a melon market in which 80 people lost their lifes.
Indiscriminate aerial attacks by the Kabul planes has been criticized in Kabul too. Asghar Khan, the head of the Salvation Society, has said that bombing of a peaceful city could be justified. Sultan Ali Keshtmand, the former Prime Minster of the regime has called it a meaningless and provocative action contradicting the policy of the national reconciliation announced by the regime.
Arms cut fails to brighten Afghan peace prospect
Despite optimism about finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan after agreement on arms cut, there is no real progress towards peace in Afghanistan. The Mujahideen and the Kabul regime have stuck to their known positions.
Najib has asked for the formation of a "national unity government" in which the Kabul regime, the Mujahideen and Zahir Shah will take part This government will serve as a transitional administration, envisaged in the UN five-point plan, to hold elections.
The Mujahideen rejected the offer repeating their stand that they were not ready to talk to Kabul rulers.
The Secretary of the Foreign Affairs of Pakistan had said there were indications that Kabul would agree to hold talks with the Mujahideen without participation of Najib. The head of the Kabul regime reject this news saying that no one should be excluded from the peace process.
Khaliqyar, the Prime Minister of the Kabul regime went to New York to talk with the UN officials and some delegates attending the UN General Assembly about on the political settlement. He addressed the General Assembly and held a press conference. He met with the UN Secretary General and the President of General Assembly. He also met with the Foreign Minster of Soviet Union. In his press conference, he asked Zahir Shah to play his due role in twinging peace to Afghanistan. He stated that regime was ready for concessions.
The Mujahideen also sent a delegation to New York to meet the UN Secretary General and delegations from friendly countries attending the General Assembly meetings. The decision to send a delegation to New York was made in the tripartite conference held in Teheran. The Mujahideen delegation was headed by Sebghatullah
Mujaddidi.
The Soviet government has invited the Mujahideen leaders to pay a visit to Moscow. Soviet leaders want to know about the fate of their soldiers missing in Afghanistan. Some of theses soldiers are held by different Mujahideen groups.
The Mujahideen are divided over the visit to Moscow. The majority of the Mujahideen parties are in favor of holding talks with Moscow. They want important political issues concerning the two sides should be included in the agenda. The composition of the delegation and its agenda will be decided in a joint meeting of all the Mujahideen parties. Soviets have also extended invitation to Hezb Wahdat Party based in Teheran.
Najib has welcomed the Mujahideen trip to Moscow. He has asked the US government to invite moderate parties in the Afghan conflict and Zahir Shah to hold peace conference in Washington D.C. He consider himself as a moderated.
Prof. Mohammad Asghar , the leader of the Salvation Society, told a Western journalist in Kabul that he saw a logic in the Mujahideen demaiu for exclusion of Najib from peace process because Najib and his party wholeheartedly collaborated with the Soviet invaders. He said, however, the regime was a reality that could not be ignored if peace was to be achieved.
A western journalist stationed in Kabul has reported new divisions within the ruling party. He said the former PDPA is not only divided between Khalq and Parcham factions but it is further split on ideological lines. There are three factions: the hard-liners who are supported by the army officers, moderates who support Najib and social democrats who criticize Soviet system want Western style democracy. He added that the five or six leaders of PDPA have their own supporters in the lower levels of the party.