AFGHANey/s Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page Q
us, PAKISTAN pEED KABUL
From page (1)
The food sent by Pakistan and US is said to be distributed by the Red Crescent Society of the regime and supervised by the UN officers.
Sevan also asked Iran to send food aid to Kabul which was accepted. Iran had already launched its own relief program in Afghanistan. Several hundred tonnes of food was sent to Bamyan by air to be distributed by Hezb Wahdat, a Mujahideen Shia party based in Tehran. Some food was also sent directly to Kabul. '
The demonstrations against price tikes in a hospital, in Pul-i-Charkhi prison and some parts of the city worried the UN negotiator that the situation might get out of hand. UN works for an orderly transfer of power from the current regime to a neutral administration.
Negotiations between the Mujahideen and Pakistani officials arc underway for opening Jalalabad road for food convoys to Kabul. The Mujahideen have resisted opening of the road so far, arguing that the UN was not treating the liberated areas controlled by the Mujahideen like Kabul. They also have criticized the UN for reducing food supply .to refugees in Pakistan.
Most of the Mujahideen leaders have expressed worry about the negative affect of food aid from Pakistan on their struggle to topple Najib. Sending food to Kabul is the most obvious example of change in Pakistan's Afghan policy. The leaders are also worried that the food might be used to strengthen regime.
Reliable sources in Kabul say that 8,000 tonnes of the UN food, stored in the Silo in Kabul, was confiscated by the regime and used to feed its army. The food was intended to feed women, old men and children of the poorest section of the people in Kabul. The UN officials did not criticize the regime publicly for this action.
Most of the Mujahideen leaders have said they are not opposed to giving food to the poor people but do not trust impartiality of the UN officials in charge of distribution. They also complain that the UN have never treated the people in the liberated areas with the same level of sympathy despite the fact that life in the countryside was as bad as in Kabul.
Obituary
Mohammad Jan Ahmadzai
Prof. Mohammad Jan Ahmad Zai, the head of the financial committee of Jami'at and a prominent, member of the Islamic Movement, was assassinated by unknown gunmen on April 2 in Pabi refugee camp outside Peshawar.
Ahmad Zai was going to mosque to offer morning prayers when two men armed with pistols attacked him outside his house.
He was seriously wounded and later died in the hospital.
The attackers managed to escape. So far, no one has been arrested in connection to this incident.
The news of Prof. Ahmad Zai's assassination shocked members of Jami'at and all those who know him.
His funeral was attended by thousands of refugees and Mujahideen. Ahmad Zai will be remembered for a long time because of his good manners, piety, and services to Jehad.
Prof. Rabbani called the death of Ahmad Zai a great loss to the Mujahideen.
Ahmad Zai was an expert on Hadith and Tafsir and taught in Jehad University run by Ittihad Islami Party. He also translated the Holy Quran in the mosque of the camp since many years.
Ahmad Zai was an intellectual who had dedicated his life in defense of the ideological frontiers of the Islam. He worked hard to forge unity among the factions of the Islamic Movement and had held important positions in many alliances formed by the Mujahideen parties.
He had written many articles about different aspects of Islam and translated several books written by the Islamic scholars into Persian and Pashtu. He was a good calligrapher.
Ahmad Zai was bom 35 years ago in a Pushtoon family in Surkhab of Mohammad Agha District, Logar Province. His father, Haji Sulaiman, was a farmer. He joined the Islamic movement when was a student student. After graduating from the Faculty of Islamic Law of the Kabul University, he became an associated professor in the same faculty.
Late Ahmad Zai migrated to Pakistan immediately after the communist coup of 1978 and became a mem-
ber of the Executive Council of Jami'at Islami.
He was a soft-spoken person who got angry rarely. His good manners had earned him respect beyond the party lines. Prof. Ahmad Zai's revivalist ideas, however, provoked the	traditional
Ulamas.' But he always treated them with respect and argued with them in a nice way.
During the Haj season of 1991, Ahmad Zai led a delegation of the Mujahideen invited by the Muslim World League. He gave several speeches in the gatherings of Hajis from all over the world informing them about the situation in Afghanistan.
He was opposed to the return of Zahir Shah as a ruler and criticized some Mujahideen leaders for taking a pro-Saddam stand during the Gulf crises.
He is left behind a widow and many children.
Hiis is the second professor of Jehad University and member of Jami'at killed by terrorists within one year. Prof. Khatibi was killed by unknown men in Peshawar about one year ago.
Prof. Rabbani had said on that occasion that terrorists being unsatisfied with the killing of human beings had turned their guns towards the angles. Prof. Ahmad Zai; like Khatibi, was a human being, but possessed the qualities of good Muslims. Ma/Allah peace and blessings shower on them both.
A meeting was organized by Jami'at, Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar), Hezb Islami (Khalis) and Ittihad Islami (Prof. Sayyaf) outside Peshawar on April 12 to honor his services for the cause of Jehad.
More than 10,000 people took part in the meeting. Several Mujahideen leaders spoke on the occasion. They paid rich tributes to Ahmad Zai and called his death a great loss. The meet ing was opened with recitation from holy Quran by Ahmad Zai's oldest son.
They condemned assassination of Ahmad Zai and blamed the enemies of Islam and Jehad for the tragedy.
Arab and Pakistani supporters of the Mujahideen and diplomats from Iran also attended the meeting.