AFGHANews Vol 5, No 23, December 1,1989, page 0
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Janan
Short News
Commander Janan, , 30, was born in the village of Speen Zeyarat of Dand district, Kandahar province. His father, .Malang Jan an Alkozai Pushtoon, was a farmer.
Commander Janan studied Holy Quran in mosque for a short time, then joined his father and worked as a farmer until the communist regime took pow-
Commander Baz Mohammad, 31, was born in the village of Zerreh Feraha of Shahwali Kot district, Kandahar province.
His father was a poor peasant of the Alkozai Pushtoon tribe. Baz Mohammad studied up to 8th grade in Shahwali Kot school.
Commander Abdul Haleem, 46, was born in Tughra village of Maroof district, Kandahar province.
His father Khan Mohammad an Alkozai Pushtoon, was a fanner. Abdul Haleem learned to read the Holy Quran in the mosque and then joined his father to help him on his .small piece of land.
He joined Mullah Naqeeb in 1979, worked as a Mujahid with him and in late 1979 formed his own small group
Commander Mohammad Omar Jan, 46, was born in Terghaka village of Arghistan district, Kandahar province.
His father, Haji Abdul Rahman a Popalzai Pushtoon, had his own animal husbandry farm.
Omar Jan bought some weapons formed his group of 40 men and established his base in the lower mountains
Commander Habibullah, 56, was born in Kadonee village of Speen Boldak district, Kandahar province.
His father was a farmer from Noorzoy tribe. Habibullah was helping his father on his small piece of land until the Russians invaded Afghanistan. He joined the Mujahideen with Jami'at in 1981.
er. He started to work with Commander Mullah Naqeeb as a Mujahid and later in 1981, he formed his own group. Although he has a small group of 35 Mujahideen, he is an effective fighter who cooperate with other Mujahideen.
He participated in the joint operation of the Mujahideen against the Soviets in the summer of 1982. He is single.
Baz Mohammad joined Mullah Naqeeb in 1981 and in 1982 formed his own group of 18 people and established his base in Shahwali Kot.
He has a small group and operates jointly with other major groups against the enemy forces in the area. He is married.
and established his base in Maroof district
He has participated in many operations against the enemy along with other major groups in his area. The largest operation he participated in was in the summer of 1987 in which the enemy * lost 30 soldiers and six Mujahideen were killed.
He is married and has four children.
of Arghistan. In the latter stage of 1983 he joined Jami'at and start to work with Mullah Naqeeb.
Commander Mohammad Omar is generous person and has given help to needy Mujahideen many of whom belong to other groups.
He is married and has eight children.
Being oldest of the Mujahideen, he became first group commander and later district commander.
He contacted Mullah Naqeeb, Jami’at major commandeer in Kandahar, and became part of his organization. He is married and has ten children.
Arghandab is the stronghold of the Mujahideen from Jami'at where Mullah Naqeebullah hails from.
Women s delegation attends Sudan moot
A two-member delegation of the Muslim Sisters Organization of Afghanistan participated in an international seminar which opened in Khartoum, Sudan, on November 8.
The purpose of the seminar was to form an International Muslim Women's Organization.
The Afghan delegation was led by Mrs. Barlyan, the deputy principle of Ummohatul-Momineen girls high school in Peshawar.
The conference has accepted the Muslim Sisters Organization as a member of the International Islamic Women's Organization.
New governor picked for Kunar
Muhammad Ali Rahmani,39, a veteran of the Islamic Movement, has been appointed Governor of Kunar province.
He replaces Maulawi Ghulam Rabbani, who became an advisor to the Ministry of Reconstruction.
Muhammad Ali joined the Islamic Movement as a student of the Faculty of Science of Kabul University. He was involved in anti-Daud activities in 1975 and was imprisoned for two years.
He has served as a commander of Jami'at in Kunar since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
Refugees from Laghman arrive in Peshawar
More than 250 new refugee families from Laghman province have crossed into Pakistan recently, to avoid indiscriminate bombing by the regime and shortages of essential commodities, MIDIA reported.
A refugee elder, Malik Faiz Mohammad, describing the conditions under which the refugees left their home, said that continuous aerial and ground bombardments did not allow the people to live normally.
The acute shortages of food and fuel multiplied their problems, he added. All the refugees came from Alingar district of Laghman.
The report says that the fresh refugees need emergency support. More than five million Afghan refugees live in Pakistan and Iran. Despite the regime’s claims of refugees returning, no significant number has returned since the Soviet troop withdrawal.
Comr.Baz Mohammad
Comr. Abdul Haleem
Comr.Mohammad Omar Jan
Commander Habibullah