a***-.**1	\
CW s
3S»*
V 5	■/■'	.	,	,	,	h	.	.	j.
byiami^afciM
v M! -A X &■ k, ■=. -K fyh.
Vol 5, No 22
November 15, 1989

kill regime general
The Mujahideen have killed a regime general and have wounded two others, Kabul regime radio reported.
General Ali Akbar, the regime’s corps commander in Kandahar who was killed by the Mujahideen, was buried with fuil military honors in Kabul.
One of the wounded officers was General Halim, head of the police force in Kandahar.
MIDIA, the official news agency of AIG, has reported that the head of the regime's military intelligence in Kandahar; General. Shamsuddin, was wounded in a mine explosion. The mine was planted by the Mujahideen.
Twelve people were killed when a regime plane crashed in the eastern city of Jalalabad. A spokesman of the Kabul regime attributed the crash to a technical problem and Titled out the possibility an attack by the Mujahideen.
Peace prevails in Taloqan
Mehiabuddin, an Afghan journalist who returned from a recent trip to Takhar, said that he was impressed by the way Taloqan, the provincial capital of Takhar, was run by the Mujahideen.
He said that a young man, Dr. Mushahid, who is a member of Jami'at political party, has been appointed the govemer of the province. His deputy. Engineer Omar, belongs to Harakat Inqilab Islami (Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi). The head of the traffic department is Commander Abdul Baqi from Hezb Islami (Khalis), and the polipe chief is Pir Mohammad from Jami'at.
The law and order situation in Taloqan was extremely good.
An old man told Mehrabuddin that he was not worried about the safety of his family and property and often neglected to lock the door of his house when he went to sleep.
UN General Assembly calls for talks between Afghans
The UN General Assembly passed a consensus resolution on Afghanistan on November 1, calling for intra-Afghan dialogue. The Afghan Interim government rejected the idea of dialogue with the Kabul regime.
The consensus resolution was the product of extensive consultation between Pakistan and the Soviet Union. 159 countries voted in favour of the resolution, which was tabled without a debate.
The Vice President of die General Assembly, Ousman Ahmadu Sallah of Gambia, who tabled the resolution, called it a "balanced text taking into account the interest of all parties concerned."
This resolution is similar to the previous UN resolution except for some new items concerning the withdrawal of Soviet troops, and calls for intra-Afghan dialogue as a means to achieve peace.
The Geneva accord was signed on April 14, 1988, between Pakistan and the Kabul regime. This agreement facilitated the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, which was completed on February 15,1989.
The Geneva accords did not bring peace to Afghanistan because the Kabul regime remained in power and the Mujahideen refused to deal with it.
An important element in the new resolution, from the Mujahideen point of view, is the UN call for preservation of the Islamic character of Afghanistan
as an essential element in a political solution to the problem of that country.
For the first time this term appeared in the joint communique by Iran and the USSR issued at the end of President Rafsanjani's trip to Moscow after Imam Khomeini's death.
The Pakistan representative called the UN resolution of "great significance". The Kabul regime representative promised the regime's full cooperation in implementing the resolution. The Kabul regime finds most of the resolutions in conformity with its policies. These parts deal with implementation of the Geneva Accord, and dialogue between different Afghan groups.
A spokesman for the AIG rejected the resolution on the grounds that it was calling for dialogue between different groups in the conflict between the Mujahideen and the regime. The Mujahideen have consistently rejected any deal with the communist regime of Najibullah,
Meanwhile, a high-ranking delegation of the Mujahideen was in New York to plead their case. The delega tion, headed by Farooq Azam, the Education Minister of the AIG, met with the UN Secretary General, Javier Perez .de Cuellair, and discussed with him the Afghanistan issue.
The Mujahideen delegation called on Vice President Dan Quayle and Secretary of State James Baker.
Soviet citizens protest against KGB atrocities
More than 1000 people, many mourning the persecution of relatives under dictator Josef Stalin, staged a candlelight vigil outside the KGB's notorious Lubyanka headquarters on October 30, Reuter reported.
As several thousand Muscovites returning home from work looked on curiously, police manned barricades to prevent anyone entering the square, and baton-charged the few who managed to break through and unfurl banners.
Police held back onlookers, as the crowd stood in silence for half an hour outside the state security headquarters to honor those killed and imprisoned for their political beliefs.
"The Lubyanka is despised by all freedom-loving people, let it be tunned into a museum for the victims of political terrorism in the Soviet Union,” said a statement issued by Memorial, the group which organized the protest