flFBHFN HEMS VCL.Ill, NO.14, 15/?/.1997 POCE f
area. The post vas captured, 10 AK-47, one DSHK, one R-108 communication set and one pistol vere seised. A number of enemy vere killed. Mujahideen also captured 8 soldiers and one officer. In retaliation the enemy used long-range artillery against the civilians vhich resulted in the destruction of many houses and the deaths of two people. 12 people including ■women, old men and children vere bounded
June 25/1987: Mujahideen vith a planted land-mine destroyed a BRDM on the H&ulavi jami street (North of the city) All of its occupants vere killed and 2 AK-47 vere seized.
June 27/1987: The enemy used air raids and long-range artillery against the villages of Farsi district (betveen Herat and Ghor). One Helicopter vas shot down by Mujahideen in Naysk area of Tulak district of Ghor province.
                           FARYAB PROVINCE                                  «
On 14/6/1987. the enemy forces attacked Yakatoot village in Andkhoy district. Mujahideen resisted the enemy. 25 enemy soldiers vere either killed or vounded. Several harvests vere set on fire by the enemy forces. Mujahideen suffered no '
casualties
On 17/6/1987, Mujahideen clashed vith communist forces in the villages of Char Shmghoor and Shaikh Leeq in tfovlatabad district. 12 DRA soldiers vere killed and 53 others captured along vith 40 guns, and some ammunition.
On 24/6/1987, the enemy forces vented to search the villages of Yakatoot end Sergen Bagh in Andkhoy district but faced resistance by the Mujahideen. 3 Trucks and two Tanks belonging to DRA vere destroyed and more than 20 Militias vere killed. 11 Mujahideen vere injured during the operation.
                                              BAGH LAN PROVINCE
24/5/87. Soviet-DRA forces launched an attack against Pashaei valley in Andarab district Baghlan province. Mujahideen resisted strongly. Ten tanks and trucks vere destroyed and an approximate number of 100 Soviet-DRA soldiers vere either killed or vounded. The enemy retreated after suffering heavy casualties. The report does not give any figures for the casualties of the Mujahideen.
                                                NORTH OF KABUL
A report sent by Dr. Khan Aqha, Jamiat commander in Qala-i-Morad Baig, about 15 Km North of Kabul, says that Mujahideen attacked a militia post in Safid Qala of Shakar Dara district on 26/6/87. Fighting vhich took place at night continued for one hour. Abdul Vakil the militia commander and 12 of his men vere captured. Tvo militias vere killed and three others vounded. Mujahideen captured 14 guns, some ammunition, clothes and food stuff.
Khan Agha leads one of the most organized fronts of Jamiat in the area and has been
fighting fighting since 1979.
                                                        ***
                      PROF. RABBANI RECEIVED FRENCH DELEGATION
A French parliamentary delegation representing all the parties, except the French Communist Party, met Prof. Rabbani on Tuesday July the 7th in Peshavar. Prof. Rabbani briefed the delegation about the latest military and political situation in Afghanistan and ansvered their questions. The head of the delegation assured Professor of continued support of French people and government to Afghan people