AFGHANews Vol 7, No 8, April 15,1991, page ©
Wisdom
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
II1IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIII1III
Truth saves trickster
A trickster once entered a city with the caravan of pilgrims return* ing from the Hijaz. He wore the special turban of the Seyyeds, thus claiming to be a descendent of the Prophet and also to be a pilgrim. When he came before the ruler of the city, he recited a long ode.
One of the courtiers had been travelling that year and exclaimed: "I saw this man in Basra this last Eid - how can he have been a pilgrim in Mecca?" Another courtier joined in and I knew his father - he was a Christian from Malatya - how can he beaSeyyed?"
Finally, the court poet found his ode already published in the Diwan of Anwari.
The ruler ordered the trickster to
be beaten and thrown out, exclaiming: "Why ever did you tell so many lies?"
He replied: "O lord of all the world, let me tell you something else. If that is not quite true, I will have deserved whatever punishment you choose to give me."
"And what is that, pray?" asked the ruler.
" If a stranger brings you a bowl of . yoghurt, be sure that most of it is water with a mere spoonful of sour milk added! If I spoke foolishly, be not offended - die traveller’s tale with many lies is
The king laughed and said: "You never spoke a truer word in your life!" And he ordered his treasurer to give the trickster the honorarium he had hoped for.
Holding one's tongue calls for courage
One of the Caliph Harun-ur-Rashid's sons came to his father in a foul temper. He said: "One of your officer's sons has cast aspersions on my birth and on my mother's virtue!"
The Caliph summoned his courtiers and asked: "What is the punishment for such an offence?"
Some of them gestured to have the culprit beheaded, others to have his tongue pulled out; still others suggested expropriation of all his goods; yet others exile.
Mahmood's wise Wazir
A group of Sultan Mahmood's courtiers asked the Minister Hasan Meymandi: " What did the king tell you today about such and such a matter?" "I expect you already know,” he answered. "No," they said. "The things he tells you, he would never share with die likes of us!" "Precisely," the minister said. "He knows I never repeat what he says in private and therefore he trusts me. So why do you bother asking?"
A man of confidence does not indulge in tittle-tattle.
Spilling the beans starts no little battle!
The Caliph turned to his son and said: "My son! A generous man would forgive; but if you cannot do this, you too go and call him a bastard! Thus you will have your revenge and we will not be guilty of tyrannical excesses. It is not courage, but mere folly to pick a quarrel with a raging elephant In my experience, real courage is to control your tongue even when you are in a temper."
A wise man once was insulted by a fool. He calmly replied: "My friend, I may be worse than what you say I am; I know my inner faults better than you ever can."
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
A*
If you don't recognize God, at least know Him by His power.
Meaning: A person who doesn't believe in God should know He exists by His works in nature.
JmjJ ^6*
♦ i*>ii>( 4$ 4dt* 4^
V*
When God gives. He doesn't ask whose son a person is.
Meaning: God blesses without partiality or without regard for rank or importance.
^ j*
To everyone his own country is Kashmir.
Meaning: East, West, home is best.
It 4i 4^
,/J
I will sacrifice myself for you when I am free from work.
<*■
V
Meaning: Business first, friendship afterwards.
