   AEfiKMLMTS__________MOLAIL, 1UJL3M.
PAGE2,
     To do all this, the Resistance has to form a single political organization to be used as a candidate. The Islamic Alliance of Mujahideen of Afghanistan is such an organization. Now we have a ' single spokesman (taking office for three months) and he can represent all Afghanistan in any political process. The Alliance is the means not the end. The purpose of having an Alliance is to involve the Resistance in political process.
     In the past each spokesman has led a delegation to U.N. General Assembly. 0.1.C meetings and other occasions.
     The present official visit of the Alliance delegation headed by Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani, the current spokesman of the Alliance, is one such a step but a very important one. We say important because of the following reasons:
     1- The proximity talks in Geneva have reached a so-called critical point without the participation, consultation and even the full knowledge of the Resistance.
     2- The Soviets have launched a political and propaganda offensive parallel to their ever-escalating military offensives. They have tried by different means to deceive world opinion and gain recognition for the puppet regime.
     Human suffering has reached new dimensions. Famine and massacre are threatening millions of Afghans. Conspiracy against refugees in neighbouring countries has reached new peaks and Pakistan air and ground space is being violated daily.
     Because of all of these the time had come to take political steps and demand our natural rights.
     The Mujahideen delegation was received officially in the countries it visited. Its delegates were treated as heads of state. The delegation explained the situation in the war and demanded the recognition of the Resistance as the sole representative of the people of Afghanistan.
     They criticised the double policy of verbal support for the Resistance while keeping diplomatic and trade relationships with the puppet regime. The delegation clarified its position on the Geneva talks and warned against deals made behind the backs of the Mujahideen.
     Making use of the occasion, the public in these countries were told about the problems and demands of the people of Afghanistan and the atrocities of the Soviets against the people of Afghanistan.
     During the trip big meetings took place with Afghans living in these countries and they were told about the military and political situation in Afghanistan. The Islamic communities and some muslim leaders were also met.