AFGHANews Vol 5, No 15, August 1,1989, page @
Obituaries (From page 3)
Mawlawi Ezatullah returned to his village and taught students for 17 years. He became active against the communist regime of Taraki in 1979. He was imprisoned and after the Soviet invasion he was released from Kunduz along with other prisoners by the Babrak regime.
He became the Amir (civil admin-[ istrator) of the Mujahideen in Bangi. He participated in many battles against the Soviets and communists in different parts of Takhar and Kunduz provinces. He was a member of Hezb Islami and
two years ago he joined Jami'at. He was the leader of about 500 armed Mujahideen in Bangi sub-district.
In 1987, he came to Peshawar. He brought with him sixty young students to study Islam in madrasas. He returned to Afghanistan last year to resume his activities.
Mawlawi Ezatullah was one of the victims of the Hezb atrocity in the Ferkahar tragedy. He has left behind ten children who live as refugees in Khurasan camp near Peshawar.
Commander Tariq
Fazel Mohammad known as Sar I Malim Tariq was bom 40 years ago in Samandab village of Eshkamish district. He went to the school mosque in his village to leam the basics of Islam and later became a student of the primary school in Eshkamish. He completed high school in Kunduz and enrolled in Teacher Training school in I Kabul.
After graduation in 1977, he be-icame a teacher in Eshkamish high school and later served as the headmaster of Samandab primary school. This is the reason for calling him Sar Malim, the Persian translation of I headmaster.
When he was in high school he I witnessed the anti-Islamic activities of the communists. He opposed them by I joining the Islamic Movement
When the communists took power,
I his family became a target of their attack. His father, Mohammad Sarwar, who had served as a member of the National Assembly was considered a potential enemy of them. He was arrested by the communists and later was I killed.
Tariq and his friends planned an ac-Jtion against the local government in Eshkamish. At its last stages, the enemy found out about it and attacked Tariq's village. He could not live there anymore. He came to Pakistan in 1978 and until 1980 he remained there. He served in different fronts in Kunar, Paktia and Badakhshan. During his stay in Peshawar he became a friend of I Commander Masood.
Commander Tariq, Islamuddin and I some other Mujahideen returned to Takhar. They liberated Eshkamish and fought many battles in Taliqan, | Khanabad, Burka and other places.
Tariq was a farsighted young com-I mander. He had realized the time for individual heroism in the war had came to Ian end. He also knew that the
Mujahideen progress in the North was checked by superior Soviet forces. He was a witness to petty differences among the Mujahideen which were weakening them daily. He came to Masood and discussed the situation with him. He told Masood that he was worried about the situation. He asked Masood either to help in reorganizing Jami'at or allow him to become a refugee in Pakistan before it was too late.
Tariq had a lot of supporters in his area and he was in control of Khailab valley, an ideal ground to establish permanent bases for the Mujahideen.
Tariq offered his services to the Supervisory Council. His men, family and property were used to build the Council. The situation in those days was not promising. Association with Masood was an invitation to bombs and rockets. He accepted all these troubles to see the Mujahideen organized and united.
Ironically Sayed Jamal, who killed Tariq and Jami'at commanders stayed some days in Tariq’s house when he returned from Pakistan three years ago.
He and his men participated in most of the operations launched by the Council against the Soviets and the regime.
He and one of hi& brothers were among the 25 people who were captured and killed by Hezb Islami Hikmatyar on July 9. He was married and has left behind five children.
Dr. Sayyed Husain
Sayed Husain son of Sayed Hafiz was bom in Khetayan village of Taliqan 37 years ago.
He became a member of the Islamic Movement when he was a high school student in Taliqan.
Sayed Husain went to the Health Faculty of Kabul University. In addition to studying medical subjects he took active part in opposing communists and propagating the message of the Islamic Movement.
Since he was a known activist of the Islamic Movement, the communists arrested him during the rule of Taraki. After two years he was released from jail. He returned to Takhar to start armed struggle against the Soviets. In addition to armed struggle he treated wounded Mujahideen and civilians.
He was one of the central figures who helped in formation of Shoora-e-Nizar, the Supervisory Council.
He took part in many battles against the enemy garrisons. He was sent to Peshawar last year at the head of a four-member team to present the Council's programs to Jami'at leader ship, leaders of other political parties and representatives of relief organiza tions working for Afghans. After completing his mission he returned to Takhar.
He played an important role in the liberation of Taliqan and provision of law and order in the city. He discussed a deal with other parties in the area which resulted in cooperation between the Mujahideen in Taliqan to protect the life and property of people and to keep open the roads for al Mujahideen. He had shown his negotia tion abilities on different occasions.
He was captured in the ambush set by Hezb on July 9 and was executed one day later along with other friends by the people with whom he had signed an agreement some weeks before.
He was married and has left behind ; rive sons and four daughters.