AFGHANews Vol7, No 16, August 15,1991, page ©
By: Prof. Khalilullah Khalili	Bart	{I)
The first Soviet invasion of Afghanistan
The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in Dec. 1979 was the third episode of its kind. The first two are little-known and many people are completely tufa-miliar with them. This is an eyewitness account of the first Soviet incursion into Afghanistan, which took place over 60 years ago.
There are many similarities between the first and the most recent episodes. Many lessons can be learnt by studying them. Professor Khalillulah Khalili, the Afghan poet and historian who died in 1987 at the age of 82, himself a fighter against the first Soviet invaders, recounted this last eyewitness account of those events.
Political situation at the time of the first invasion
Stalin was in power in Russia and had already occupied the Muslim Central Asian states. King Amanullah, a close friend of Stalin, had been dethroned by an ordinary man, Amir Habibullah Khan (called Bacha-i-Saqaw by his opponents). The deposed king was mobilizing people in Kandahar in an effort to regain his power.
General Nadir Khan was gathering faces in Paktia to attack Kabul. Stalin decided to send his troops to defeat Amir Habibullah and reinstate the deposed king. In Oder to cover the invasion, he sent Amanullah's ambassador to Moscow, Ghulam Nabi Khan, and a few Afghan students in USSR to Afghanistan to accompany his invading Hoops.
The invasion begins
It was the beginning of June 1929. The border officer of the central post of the Northern Frontier at Tappa-i-Kassir sent us the following message by telephone: "This morning, a group of strangers crossed the Amu Darya (Oxus River) into Afghanistan. They are all dressed in Afghan army uniforms and are equipped with Russian machineguns and cannons. Their leader call himself Ambassador Ghulam Nabi and they are protected by five aircraft which have flown from Termiz. Our border guards who wanted to stop them were all killed."
Mirza Mohammad Qasim', die governor of Mazar, soon after receiving this message, contacted Division
Commander, Sher Ali, at Dehdadi of Mazar. The telephone line between Mazar and Tappa-i-Kassir was cut Commander Sher Ali immediately sent a team to Tappa-i-Kassir to investigate the incident and he himself came to Mazar to get further instructions. After an urgent meeting in the Governor's Office in Mazar, it was decided to dispatch a battalion to Sia Gerd to fight against the strangers who had crossed the Amu River.
In the late afternoon. Commander Sher Ali informed us that a brigade of 2000 fully equipped men were proceeding toward Mazar-i-Sharif. A local shepherd had told the messenger that the invaders spoke a language he could not understand. Less than two hours later, another messenger from Sia Gerd told us that fighting had begun but that the defenders' numbers, arms and ammunition, were not sufficient to repel the invaders.
It was instantly decided that a message be sent to Kabul to inform the au-thorites of the incident, and to call all the influential people, ulamas, provincial judges and high-ranking officers of Mazar to a meeting in order to discuss the situation.
That same night, the Soviet consulate in Mazar secretly distributed leaflets in the city and in Dehdadi garrison asking the people to support the forces led by Ghulam Nabi.
The next day, the first group to arrive at Salam Khana (a reception hall at the governor's office) was headed by the most respected religious figure of the north. Da Mullah Audeena Mohammad Arab. Mirza Mohammad Qasim and others asked Da Mullah Arab to preside over the meeting. The Russian invasion, killing of the Afghan border guards and fighting in Sia Gerd were discussed. Proclamations signed by Ghulam Nabi Khan were read out in the meeting.
Mawlawi Ghulam Haider Mazari, one of Da Mullah Arab's disciples, declared Jehad after those present had deliberated on the relevant Sharia rulings. Commander Sher Ali suggested that the matter be discussed with'military officers at Dehdadi, and their consent be obtained, before declaring Jehad (holy war).
Hearing this. Da mullah Arab stood up and said firmly that "Whether the military officers agree with us or not, we declare Jehad for the sake of protection of our religion, honor and
country.”
All present in the meeting, including Commander Sher Ali, accepted Da Mullah Arab's verdict on Jehad. I was instructed to draft the Jehad declaration. I am still proud of drafting the decision-of that historical meeting, which was printed in Mazar with the help of the editor of the "Ittihad" newspaper and circulated all over the province.
The meeting also decided the following points:
(1)	A force of battalion strength should be sent to Balkh. The governor of Mazar and three Ulamas should accompany the force.
(2)	Permanent contact should be established between the Khalifa of Qezel Ayaq and Balkh.
(3)	Sufficient supplies of food should be stored.
(4)	The road between Balkh and Maimana and Balkh and Dehdadi should be protected so that they would not fall into the enemies' hands.
It was also decided that the spiritual influence of Da Mullah Arab should be utilized effectively and that Mirza Mohammad Qasim, the governor of Mazar, should cooperate with him.
From Salam Khana all the participants of the meeting went to Hazrat-i-Ali's (May Allah be pleased with him) shrine (1). Thousands of people joined them. They woe shouting Allahu ak-bar! Allahu akbar! (God is great).
(Note 1:	Mazar-i-Sharif	means
Holy Shrine )
Balkh
I and my group arrived in Balkh and camped at the ruins of the historical Balkh Fort which was ova looking the area. Arbab Ayoub of the Safi Push toons of Balkh, along with Sultan Mohammad and Noor Mohammad Safi, joined me. They could not believe that Ghulam Nabi, the son of a respected and reputable Afghan general named Ghulam Sediq Charkhi, could commit the sin of bringing Soviet troops to Afghanistan. But the declaration of Jehad by itself was enough to convince everyone to join die antiinvasion movement.
I sent the declaration of Jehad, backed up by .a personal message, to the Khalifa of Qezel Ayak and other notables of Aqcha and Andkhoy, informing them of the dangers threatening the country and its people. A group of honest people was assigned to buy food and store it.