AFGHANews Vol6, No 23, December 1,1990, page ©
News
From The Battlefields
Paktia Province
A military transport plane of the Kabul regime was shot down while landing at Khost airport on November
14,	MIDIA reported. The pilot of the plane was killed.
Baghlan Province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at un: der command of Mullah Shams attacked KHAD security posts in Baghlan with heavy weapons on November 10. The enemy suffered heavy losses but no details were available.
Logar Province
Two enemy tanks were destroyed and many soldiers were killed or wounded on November 17 in Waghjan gorge, Dr. Hanan, Jami'at commander in Mohammad Agha reported.
Regime troops launched an attack on Waghjan gorge on November 18, but retreated after loosing three tanks. Nine enemy soldiers were killed in the attack.
The Mujahideen destroyed one enemy tank in Mohammad Agha on November 19, Dr. Hanan reported.
The Mujahideen captured four enemy posts in Babus area of Logar on November 27. Fighting between the two sides continues in Mohammad Agha and Zarghoon Shar.
Kabul Province
The Mujahideen fired rockets into the enemy garrison in Puli Charkhi, east of the city, on November 21. As a result of the attack, one ammunition dump and three vehicles were set on fire.
Ghazni Province
The Mujahideen in Ghazni captured six enemy posts on November
15,	but the enemy recaptured them us-
ing militia forces. Commander Khalilullah Hotak reported.
differences between Sunni and Shia militiamen in Ghazni led to open armed conflict on November 19. Making use of the opportunity, the Mujahideen killed four militiamen on that day.
The Mujahideen from Jami'at and Khalis attacked Ghazni airport on November 25 with heavy rockets, inflicting heavy losses on the enemy. Fighting between the two sides continued when this report was filled.
Parwan Province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at fired rockets into Bagram air base, destroying one MIG fighter on November 25. The attack caused an explosion in the airport ammunition dump.
Jawzjan Province
Five armed soldiers were captured and 20 were killed or wounded by the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Aaqcha district on November 14. Fighting continues in Joy-i-Haider Abad and Joy-i-Shariq areas.
Two hundred armed men joined the Mujahideen in Shur Quduq of Sang-i-Charak district on November 8 and 9. The armed men belonged to regime militia forces. In two days of fighting the Mujahideen destroyed one tank and me truck and killed 24 soldiers and wounded 30.
The Mujahideen lost five men and 18 others were wounded. Aerial bombing caused most of deaths and injuries.
Balkh Province
The Mujahideen fired rockets into enemy positions in Mazar Power and Fertilizer Factory on November 20, killing or wounding 20 enemy personnel. Work in the factory has stopped as a result of the attack.
Herat Province
The Mujahideen in Herat captured 11 KHAD personnel, including five officers, from a post near Herat ariport on November 16.
They also captured 30 Kalashnikov rifles, 10 heavy machine-guns, two ZPU (14.6 mm) machine-guns and two mortars. The report adds that an ammunition dump and ten vehicles were also set on fire. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
UN advises new policy
From page (1)
Afghanistan from Pakistan and about 200 families from Iran. He says that the refugee influx to Pakistan has stopped, which is not true. For example, about 1000 families were displaced from Logar recently. The flow of refugees out of Afghanistan has never stopped.
The UN rapporteur believes that the human rights situation will improve when the war comes to an end. He proposes holding elections for the formation of an acceptable government
The UN coordinator’s office for the reconstruction of Afghanistan has made public the report of its activities in Afghanistan since its formation in 1988.
Sadruddin's deputy told reporters in Islamabad that the UN had completed 157 projects and 206 projects were under work.
Sadruddin in a message on the occasion said that successes in one area provoke resentment among rival groups. He was referring to criticism by the Afghan resistance that UN programs benefit the Kabul regime the most. Sadruddin complained to the General Assembly that he did not receive enough funds for his projects. He said most of the aid was in kind, and donors had attached conditions to it
Commander killed
Sadiq Nili, the chief commander of Wahdat Party in Uruzgan Province, was killed by unknown attackers on November 16.
Sadiq was a member of the central council - of Wahdat Party and had played a key role information the party one year ago. A party spokesman said the murder was politically motivated. He said a committee had been formed to investigate the incident.
Sadiq was sleeping in his house in Dydkundy District when gunmen attacked him. The commander’s three-year old child was mur-deredalso.