AFGHANews Vol6, No 17, September 1,1990, page @
Salang Valley
The Mujahideen of the S.C. have destroyed more than . 100 tanks .and trucks of the Kabul regime and have blocked the Salang Highway for nine days, Hihdukush News Agency reported.
The attack was launched in the South Salang, Jabulseraj and Charikar on the Salang Highway connecting Kabul to the Soviet border on August 11. The enemy lost one helicopter, four multiple rocket launchers and several artillery pieces. A large number of the enemy troop were either killed of wounded.
Hundreds of Mujahideen from Salang, . Shotul, Gulbahar, Jabulseraj and Totomdara took part in the operation. The Mujahideen made use of ground-to-ground rockets and recoilless rifles in the attack against the enemy posts, bases and convoys. The enemy warplanes and its artillery heavily bombarded the suspected areas of die Mujahideen destroying many houses and killing and wounding some civilians.
This is the first time in the history of Jehad that Salang Highway has been blocked for such a long time.
Six Mujahideen were killed and 6. civilians were injured. Two Mujahideen DSchK machineguns were destroyed in the operation. Here are the day-to-day accounts of the operation:
•The Mujahideen attacked with heavy weapons the headquarters .of the 2nd Division of the regime in Qala-i-Suikh on August 11; The Military installations were set on fire and burned for 4 hours. One helicopter was destroyed when it tried to evacuate wounded soldiers.
•	The'Mujahideen destroyed 21 trucks, six oil tankers, four tanks and several security posts in Taghma village inside the Salang valley on August 12. They also destroyed 19 trucks and inflicted heavy casualties on the enemy in Deh Naw area of Salang on the same day. Two tanks and two trucks were destroyed in Bagh-i:Maidan area.
In Totomdara , at the mouth of the Ghorband Valley, the Mujahideen destroyed one KHAD jeep, nine trucks and one tank. The Kabul regime warplanes bombed the suspected position of the Mujahideen killing one civilian and 'wounding. several others. Several houses were also destroyed.	v-
•	The Mujahideen destroyed three BM-21s ( 40 barrel multiple rocket launchers) and one BM-13 in Olahg area of
Salang on August 13. A building housing regime soldiers was also destroyed in the attack.
•	The Mujahideen destroyed three tanks, four trucks, three D-30 guns and three BM-21 rocket launchers belonging to the regime in Olang on August 14.
•	The Mujahideen destroyed four tanks, 15 trucks and one building inside the Salang Valley on August 15. Three
.Mujahideen were injured in the operation.
'The Mujahideen attacked the enemy garrisons in Tajikan, Jabulseraj and Salang on August 16. Ten trucks were destroyed and an unknown number of enemy soldiers were killed or wounded. \
•One tank, 10 trucks and a building of die regime were destroyed by the Mujahideen in Baba Mardan of Salang on August 17.
•The . Mujahideen destroyed three tanks, 17 trucks and two buildings of the en-. emyin Salang on August 18.
•	The Mujahideen destroyed one tank in Jabulseraj and seven .tanks, 10 trucks, one D-30 gun and a building in Salang on August 19.
Kunduz Province
The Mujahideen of Jami'at repulsed an attack launched by a regime militia unit in Bagh-i-Miii, close to the city of Kunduz on August 6. Five enemy soldiers were killed. The enemy artillery pounded the villages controlled by the Mujahideen killing one person and wounding three.
■ The Mujahideen killed one enemy soldier and wounded another in Kunduz in die Musa Zay area on August 8.
The Mujahideen from Jami'at under die command of Abdul Qadir killed one enemy soldier and wounded another in Kid Taipa village of Qala-i-Zal district on August 9.
Bamyan Province
The Mujahideen of Jami'at has liberated Hajar and Ashraf valleys in Bamyan from the control of the government militiamen under Sayyed Mansoor of Kayan, HINA reported; Two Mujahideen were killed in the operation.
Sayyed Mansoor the leader of Isnudlia community is working with die Kabul regime. The mam base of Sayyed Mansoor is Kayan valley close to Pul-i-Khumri District
Badghis Province
More than 2,000 armed militiamen have joined die Mujahideen in Badghis Province,. Commander Ismail Khan reported.
The 89th tribal battalion of the regime under the command of Ghulam Yahya and
stationed at Pudak about 60 kilometers, west of Badghis came over to the Mujahideen on August 13.
Ghulam Yahya was the deputy of Naik Mohammad, die provincial commanderof Jami'at in Badghis. After Naik Mohammad was martyred one year ago, he joined the regime because of some problems with other Mujahideen commanders.
Commander Ismail Khan of Herat went to Badghis about one month ago to escalate the war against the regime. He convened a meeting of the commanders of the province to discuss the situation. The commanders from other parties also attended the meeting. They decided to intensify at tacks . ..against the regime forces in the Province.
After die meeting they contacted different militia4 groups to persuade them to defect.
Ghulam Yahya accepted the offer and joined the Mujahideen with 1,200 light weapons, two wireless sets, 60 heavy machineguns, one mortar, one armored car and 100,000 rounds of ammunition.
Reports from Badghis add that about 1,500 Mujahideen under the command of Abdul Khaliq liberated several villages near Qala-i-Naw
In this operation 400 light weapons, three ZPU (14.6 mm), two DSchK, and four trucks were seized from another militia group led by Abdul Aziz.
The 82 tribal battalion under the command of Abdul Aziz joined the Mujahideen on August 23. He brought with him 615 light weapons, 26 PK machineguns, two ZPU machineguns, three mortars, 10 RPG-7 rocket launchers, three recoiUess rifles and seven trucks. Several villages close die Qala-i-Naw wereliberated;
Abdul Aziz was n Mujahideen com mander who joined die regime forces about four years ago
v About 4,000 Mujahideen from Badghis and some districts of Herat have massed near Qala-i-Naw. They want to attack the regime garrison there. The defection of the militia battalion will weaken die morale of the regime troops and will open die way for the liberation of Badghis Province. —
Hie latest reports say the Mujahideen attacked Qala-i-Naw from four directions on August 25. Several outpost of the regime have been captured. The Kabul regime warplanes heavily bombed die Mujahideen positions
Kandahar Province
Commander Mullah Naqibullah launched a mopping up operation against bandits on the Kandahar-Ghazni road on August 16.
Several groups of bandits laid down arms and 18 bandit were killed. Four bandits were tried and sentenced to death by a court; 4
Bandits were looting the property of travellers and committed other crimes against innocent people.
Mullah Naqibullah has gone to Uruzgan on a pbace mission. He wanted to to bring understanding between the Pushtun and Hazara communities in that, province. Relations between the two communities are tense and has even led to armed conflict Disputes over land and pasture are the source of the tension between the two communities.
Two commanders from Mahaz mini (Pit Ghailani). and one commander from Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) in Helmand have joined Mullah Naqibullah.
Twenty one armed soldiers of toe Kabul regime stationed in Mahbas post defected to the Mujahideen of Mullah
Turn to page (7)