AFGHANews Vol 8, No 7, April 1,1992, page ©
Najib plays on Westerners' fear
Najib, the head of the Soviet-installed Kabul regime, told an AP reporter in a recent interview that if the so-called fundamentalist parties came to power in Kabul, Afghanistan would turn into the center of drug and terrorism. He has asked the US and other Western countries to help him to contain the spread of fundamentalism after the fall of the Soviet Union.
He tries to exploit the fear of Westerners from terrorism and drug which he blame the Islamist Mujahideen for its spread. He projects himself as the only effective force capable of containing religious fundamentalism and the spread of revolutionary Islam. The Kabul regime says that the so-called moderate Mujahideen parties are militarily weak and Zahir Shah has no organization of himself to provide an alternative to the regime. The only Mujahideen who are militarily strong and enjoy having fairly strong organizations are the fundamentalist Najib says that the Western interests are better saved under him rather the Mujahideen government
Najib accuses the so-called fundamentalist Mujahideen parties of involvement in drug trafficking and terrorism. These accusations are not only aimed to frighten the outsiders from a Mujahideen government in Kabul but also are directed to create fear in the minds of people living in Kabul and other cities.
The allegations of Mujahideen's involvement in drug business and terrorism needs detailed examination because some Western papers have also leveled similar charges against the Mujahideen.
As far as international terrorism is concerned, the Afghan Mujahideen's hands are clean. In 13 years of war the Mujahideen have taken no action against their enemies, Soviet Union and the Kabul regime, outside their country and have not been accused of breaking the international law.
On the contrary, Najib as the head of KHAD and then the president of the regime, has been involved in exporting terrorism to Pakistan which caused the death of hundreds of Afghans .and Pakistanis. The Kabul regime was found guilty of supporting terrorists who hijacked a PIA plane to Kabul. In retaliation, regime planes were barred from landing in West European countries.
As far as political assassination of
some. Afghan personalities in exile are concerned, one cannot point a finger towards a specific groups without having a proof. In all these incidents, KHAD has always been a suspect All the Mujahideen parties have condemned terroristic actions.
Najib, with his criminal record, is not a credible person to accuse other of terroristic actions. He was the head of KHAD and has fired at least 1500 SCUD missiles against his own people.
As far as the growth of opium is concerned, one should admit that Afghanistan is a main producer of opium. But to blame only the Mujahideen parties for that is not fair. Opium is grown in some border regions of Afghanistan. These areas are not controlled solely by the so-called fundamentalist parties. Involvement of the Mujahideen parties in this criminal business is not established and all the Mujahideen parties reject the allegations of their involvement.
To combat drug production and trafficking effectively, one needs a comprehensive economic, security and political program. Formation of a representative government in Kabul will make it possible to begin an effective campaign against drug production. Most of the Mujahideen are aware of. the damage drug has caused to the rep-
utation of the proud Afghan nation and danger drug poses to the younger generations. Some Mujahideen commanders have been prepared to wage a war against drug production and trade but such a move could have triggered armed clashes with undesirable consequences.
The record of Islamist parties in fighting social evils, including illicit drugs, is quite good. In the areas effec lively controlled by these Mujahideen, trade and production of opium and hashish, sometime even tobacco, are totally banned.
Therefore, the accusations of the regime that an Islamic government in Kabul increases drug production is baseless. On the contrary, in a traditional religious society the chances of Islamic government's success in combatting crimes are much brighter.
After 15 years of communist role, hashish, alcohol and heroin has become part of the life of regime's security forces — army, militia and police.
Contrary to what regime says, a government formed in Kabul by the Afghan Mujahideen will be the most effective administration which can fight the menace of drug. To the Islamic parties, fighting against drug is a religious duty and a form of Jehad.
Najib called liberator
The Federal Minister for Railways of Pakistan Haji Ghulam Ahmad Bilour has praised the role of Najibullah, the head of the Kabul regime, in forcing the Soviets to withdraw their troops from Afghanistan, Khaleej Times reported.
Bilour whose Awami National Party (ANP) is a coalition partner of UT at the center and NWFP, said nobody could ignore Najibullah's place in the history of Afghanistan because he led his nation to get rid of both super powers.
ANP is a supporter of the Kabul regime and has been criticizing Afghan Mujahideen since the beginning of Jehad. This party never criticized the Soviets for their invasion of Afghanistan.
The views expressed by the ANP leader in support of Najib as the liberator of Afghanistan is quite interesting. Even Najib has not given himself the role that has been given to him by his Pakistani friends. On the contrary, Najib has been saying that he
and his party have had committed mistakes but the time has come to forget the past.
There are many other candidates that claim full or partial credit for withdrawal of Soviet troops in Afghanistan. Gorbachev is often given the credit for it because he called the Afghan war a "bleeding wound" and decided to withdraw Soviet troops from Afghanistan. But, he failed to end the Soviet involvement in Afghanistan and massive Soviet military support to the Kabul regime continued as long as he ruled in Moscow.
The international support, moral and material, played an important role in the final victory of Afghans. The role of friendly countries like Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and, to some extent, Iran could not be ignored. The full credit for the liberation of Afghanistan goes to the Afghan Mujahideen whose sacrifices forced the Red Army to leave afghanis tan without winning the war.