AFGHAN^NE-WS
No, 22
_28-1_2-1_98j3
5:7 2
 puppet regime. The Soviets, as they usually do, will blame for-, _ iegn forces for interference and would intervene to stop the regime’s fall. This time they'Will come to defend a recognized legal regime. Therefore the exclusion of the resistance (Afghan people) from any political deal does not solve the problem, but makes it more complicated.
 The only key solution to the problem is the right of the people to determine their future without, foriegn interference. This is what every country likes to have. This is what'every school of thought preaches. Why then should Afghan be excluded from this natural rights. If they are not given this right the war of the people of Afghanistan for total freedom will continue, if necessary by Afghans alone,
                                       REPORT FROM PANJSHIR
 'izl’iz^.l                --------          ---
 Mujahideen attacked the enemy positions in Bara valley. Ten soldiers and one political Commiosar were captured with 14 AK-47s. and one rocket launsher..
 1_0-22-85
 Mujahideen attacked three enemy posts in Rahi Jang (5kra from Gulba-har) and destroyed three tanks, two tents and one small building,
 The Mujahideen ambushed an enemy armoured unit, in Rahi Jang,dsetr-oyed one tank and three trucks,
 12-12-85__
 Fighting is continuing around Keraman garrison in Bara valley. Twenty soldiers and two officers were captured with their weapons,
 14-12-85
 Mujahideen attacked the Soviet-DRA garrison in Keraman, about 100
 soldiers were killed and wounded, one tank and an ammunition’ dump
 were set on fire, 3 AK-74s and one AGS-17 (grenade launcher) were *
 captured. Three Mujahids were killed and six other were wounded.         *
                                                                                               %
 Fighting along the whole valley is going on in the form of heavy weapons fire and ambushes and raids against the enemy garrisons and outposts.
 13^12-85
 For the first time Mujahideen of Abdgra were able to cross a mine field (of siemic type) and attacked a Soviet post. They killed all the soldiers in the post and captured       one  AK-74, one Bschk and
 43 boxes of ammunition.
 16-12-85
              Mujahideen attacked a Soviet supply helicopter in one of Rukha out-
