		- A t kf %w . « .	
		■ A.rui jlaivcws. voto, jnozj, ucccrnoei l, page y	
mil			*		 —
fill
Afghan refugees in Pakistan continue to return tc Afghanistan despite the cole climate.
The United Nations Higt Commission for Refugees ha« monitored an average of 1,201 individuals crossing -intt Afghanistan daily from th< North West Frontier Provicne and 420 individuals crossing from Baluchistan.
- The repatriation of over one mil lion Afghan refugees has lessened bur den on Pakistan budget, Rustam Shah the commissioner lor Afghan refugee Affairs in Pakistan, said in interviev with VOA.
He said during the past ten year Pakistan provided more than 700,00 tonnes of wheat to the refugees frora it own reserves. Although, the UN ani
Council of Hal-o- Aqd to usherin political stability
The Hal-o-Aqd council (HAC) will be convened in Kahul within two weeks.
The council will choose the head of the state for a period of 18 months. The new government will pave the way for holding general elections anti formulate the new constitution, which will be adopted by an assembly formed through general elections. •*.' v
The HAC should have been convened during tlfc four-month office term of President Rabbani, but it was_postponcd for- 45 days due to rocket attacks by Hc2b Islami, which disrupted government activities, and the absence of some of the party leaders from Kabul.
The Leadership Council, which is comprised of the party leaders, extended the office.term of President Rabbani for a period of 45 days to enable him to convene the assembly of Hal-o-Aqd.
- The organizing commission, comprised of representatives of all parties, pre-
pared.thmjles and regulations forelection of members of the council. The rules
were endorsed by the Leadership Council . Teams including representatives of all
the parlies and judges from the Supreme Court were given the task of supervising j other world aid agencies extended as
the election process.	*	i	sistance to the refugees, Pakistan wa
Preparations for convening the council within the prescribed time when some also compelled to meet some of the!
leaders suddenly began to demand its postponement.	1	other requirements from its owi
They argued that the winter would make it difficult to hold elections and ■ budget.
convene the meeting. Pir Gailani and a leader of He/b-i-Wahdat (a Sljja party)
demanded postponement of the meeting of the council for six months.
Although winter poses some problems, it cannot stop the council from being
convened. The roads may be difficult to travel but goverment has enough hclicop- ...	,	.	_	.
........	,	,	.	..	.	.	. ,	.	their homeland During the current an
ters to airlift the delegates from all over the country. More than that, the leaders .	_	..	..	.
.	. j . .	*	..	,, ,	,	,	next years Pakisum would not be com
who demanded the delay of the Hal-o-Aqd Council had supported its convening
just one month ago, and they were fully aware of Winter problems when they were making their decisions. .	,	'	[
Gailani and Mujaddidi have charged President Rabbani with misusing government funds and his official position to influence the outcome of the election.
Other party leaders have begun echoing these accusations. But they have failed to present any solid evidence - or even specific accusations • to back up their loud, but vague charges..
The accusations seem tailored for the cars of foreign diplomats and journalists^ who have repeated them widely. "
As those making such charges well know, vote-buying in a tribal society like that Qf Afghanistan is difficult. People will gladly take money when it is offered, but there is no.guarantee it will influence' their fhoicci By the same token, they ■ will favor someone who can guarantee their long-term interests whether or not he tries to bribe ihem.' • •	•*	'	V'	'	y	' ~
Therefore, their demand for postponing the. Hal-o-Aqd meeting must have other motives than those they claim. '/.*** . *	'	*	I	*	•• |
i It is clear that those opposing the Hal-o-Aqd council are afraid of the people's judgement. So far, all leaders have claimed to be equal to each other, as a matter of face, and there were no political means to measure their individual popularity.
The lime has come to accord importance to the parties and. their leaders in
Rustam Shah said now Pakistan i in a better position because a larg number of refugees have returned l< home! years 1
polled to provide wheat to the refugee from its own stores because the food stuff being provided by foreign ai agencies may be sufficient to the reft gees requirements, he said.
Islamabad accused of interference in Kabul
Mawlana Fazlur Rahmai Secretary General, Jamiat Ulema-Islam (JUI), has alleged that the it fighting among various factions c AfghanjMujahideen in Kabul was th result of Pakistan's interference i Afghan affairs.
Addressing a gathering of JL workers on October 30, Mawlana rt grctlcd that Pakistan government agencies were provoking, the Afgha Mujahideen against each other. If on
keeping with their popular support Convening the Hal-o-Aqd Council; is a step agency was coddling Dostum then th
towards that end - the first step towards holding general elections withiri the next year and a half.
Efforts to postpone the Hal-o-Aqd Council can only prolong the current un-
1 To page (8)
other had contacts with Gulbuddi Hikmatyar, and it was their endeavc to widen the gulf between them, h addedT *	,	■