AFGHANews Vol7, No 12, June 15,1991, page ©
Jami'at serves as a bridge poles of the resistance:
AFGHANews: Jami'at is accused of lacking a clear stand on major issues. What is your answer to this?
Prof. Rabbani: Jami'at has adopted a moderate and pragmatic policy. It: opposes^the extremist policies which are idealistic and at the same time reject moves that undermine the political! image and military strength of the| Mujahideen. It opposes alny move which enhances the image of the Kabul regime. A moderate policy is needed at this sensitive period of our history.
The war has changed the social and political texture of the Afghan society. The main objective is to preserve the national unity of Afghans and pave the way for the return of peace in the country. This will be possible when all the anti-communist forces get together. Jami'at is struggling for this aim, acting as a bridge between the extreme politics in both sides. If it is impossible to bring all groups together on a single platform, at least the majority of the re-, sistance groups should get together. This is necessary for national unity in Afghanistan. Some people might have, not understood our policy, but working for national unity and the return of peace gives shape to our programs.
Playing such a role is not easy, but abandoning it-will lead the country to polarization and disaster. If such polarization takes place, each pole, with the support of its outside friends, will wage a war of proxies. Jami'at might have suffered some political setbacks due to this policy, but the interests of Islam and Afghanistan are more important than any other consideration.
AFGHANews: Some Mujahideen leaders blame outside, conspiracies for the delay of Mujahideen victory, Are die Mujahideen feeing problems from within or without?
Prof. Rabbani: Afghan Jehad, like most of issues of Muslim world, suffers from internal problems. Our main problems, are internal. We are not united and. do not have a single strategy.
But there are external problems too, For example, some countries supporting Jehad promote specific people and parties of within the resistance because of their specific interests. In some cases, efforts are made to isolate and weaken the powerful parties. Some countries make decisions about Afghanistan without consulting the Mujahideen. The signing of die Geneva Accords against die wishes of the Mujahideen is a good example. We can
' Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani
llllllllllllklllllllllllllllllttlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllNIIIIIIlljlllll
say some outside decisions have had a negative effect on Jehad, but our main problems are internal.
AFGHANews: The Afghan resistance pays mare attention to post-war Afghanistan than to the removal of the Kabul regime. Don't you dunk this is the wrong approach?
Prof. Rabbani: The Mujahideen, indeed, have had this problem. Instead of ^thinking about the removal of the Kabul regime, they thought about its replacement. Such thinking has created internal tension and political, differences.
Each Party should not think about the future government individually. All Mujahideen parties should be involved in the decision about the future form of government.
.Efforts to take power through a coup or' to strengthen positions around Kabul to thwart other Mujahideen, are footed in this way of thinking. Underestimatingithe strength of the eh-emy gave them a chance to survive. The Mujahideen have sprat their time on problems of the future at the expense of current problems.
AFGHANews: Why can't the parties based in Iran and Pakistan agree on common plan? ”
Prof. Rabbani: People on' both sides think that if all their demands are not accepted now, they will not be accepted in tiie future. They fail to understand that steps taken now belong to a specific situation. Today's decisions must not become a base for the future form of government in Afghanistan. The extreme positions taken by both sides are based on this misunderstanding. There is a need for realism.
between two Rabbani
Demands should be made at their proper time.
In discussions with the Mujahideen based in Tehran, I found that they are interested in practical programs, which is a positive sign.
AFGHANews: How do you evaluate your recent trip to Iran?
Prof. Rabbani: I was invited by the Foreign Minister of Iran to visit Tehran. Velayati wanted to hear the views of Jami'at about the situation in Afghanistan before his talks with Akram Zaki, the Foreign Secretary of Pakistan, on Afghan problem.
From discussions with the Iranian i leaders, I found that the general impression that Iran was in favor of a political solution through ihtplementation of national reconciliation - power shar-iqg between Kabul and Mujahideen -was not correct. Iranian woe fully aware of the weaknesses of the Kabul regime and knew about the deep differences among different factions of the PDPA.
But they thought that the Soviets might resist an extreme approach by the Mujahideen because they looked at Afghan problem from the angle of their national security. While Iranians did not oppose the armed .struggle by the Mujahideen, they were interested in finding a political solution to die problem of Afghanistan so that the suffer' ing of the Afghan people could come to an rad.
When I was in Iran, a large number of people from Zindajan, Herat, were displaced because of a large-scale attack launched by the Kabul regime. I asked the Iranian government to help the displaced people. They gave 30 tons of food immediately and promised to provide more assistance in the future.
AFGHANews: The Kabul regime claimed that it has gained significant victories in Herat. What was the situation there?
Prof. Rabbani: In the initial phase of the attack which was massive ant surprising, the Mujahideen lost Rabat-i-Pay and Sang Bast areas in Zindajan. But later, they recaptured them. The casualties of the Kabul troops were very high. Regime had brought schoo children to fight against the Mujahideen. When the bodies of 11 children,-killed in fighting, were taken to the city, the people poured to the streets to protest against the regime.