-----------------------   AEGEAHews	Voll	So	12.	June 13,1988. Page8
..... .!■—im-iw I.-,.......-....—■—m II ■	■ - '■■■ ■	■—
From the diary of Jehad
Jaji liberation helps restoring
normal life
WE crossed the border by car. The Afghan side of the border gives the i impression of a * fortified zone. Tutrneis, bunkers, buildings and roads have been built I to accommodate thousands of the Mujahideen,
tour fears ago. this erae vos not so olive. The past years vas witness to severe confrontations between the Mujahideen and the Communist forces backed by the Soviets.
Deforestation
Before the war the area was covered with pine trees. The war save an opportunity for the local people to earn money by cutting trees as a result of which deforestation has become a problem. Continuous bombardments by the enemy also set the forest on fire and caused damage to the trees.
Between the border and ?; jaji Garrison there are 1 several villages. Most of the villages were destroyed and their people had become refugees.
The villages close to the Communist base were not destroyed and fields were partially cultivated. When we stopped by the river to say our prayers, the driver who was a local man warned us not step into fields because they were mined. Without cleaning the minefields in the area
By Mohammad Eshaq
refugees will not feel safe I to return.	I
We passed by the	I
destroyed armoured cars, trucks and tanks. They told the story of the heroic struggle of the Mujahideen against the puppet regime and the Soviet Army.
Some people were returning to the villages and starting to plow their fields. They were using both tractors and oxen to do the )ob.
This area could be used for the first phase of the reconstruction period, its closeness to the border and strength of the Resistance makes rehabilitation of refugees and reconstruct ion work easier.
Island
The captured base did not have any trees. It was located on high ground like an island surrounded by green fields and beautiful villages. We were surprised by the size of the abandoned base. The Mujahideen were stationed all around the base to protect it. This base was occupied by the puppet troops and there were some Soviet advisors helping them.
Tens of trucks, armoured cars and tanks were abandoned by the Communists. The body of two shot down helicopters were seen there. I counted 15 heavy guns some of which were in working condition.
The whole base was littered with Communist ’ propaganda material. Ironically some of these propaganda sheets were stating that the so-called
Democratic Revolution was ■ permanent and irreversible.
I entered a room which was labeled as the mosque. Communist regime has been playing a game to show that it respected Islam and gives freedom to the people to perform their religious duties. This was necessary because most of the soldiers were conscripts who were press-ganged into the army. They did not want to fight for a Communist regime.
Auction
The whole base was tittered with soldiers' boots, uniforms, empty artillery shells, oil barrels and tyres etc. While we were drinking tea on the roof of abandoned police headquarters inside the base, at one comer a huge crowd had get together and the Mujahideen had put to auction the empty cases of artillery shells.
As the sun was about to hide behind green mountains the call for prayer was announcing the victory of faith over Communism.
Another promising feature of the Jaji experience was cooperation among different Mujahideen groups. They all fought against the enemy together and after the victory were cooperating to protect the base. What 1 missed was a civil administration in the area.
The Jaji trip raised our moral and made us hopeful about the final victory of our people. A short stay in Afghanistan and sleeping one night under the starry sky of Afghanistan was an unforgettable experience.