AFGHANews Vol7, No 2, January 15,1991, page ©
Wisdom
t sages
■P	r-—
L-	AFGHAN ROVERBS
Soft teacher spoils children
In the West, I saw a teacher - a sour-faced, embittered, unpleasant beggar of a man, self-indulgent and cruel. To look at him was to feel sick, and to hear him chant the Quran was enough to make one regret being a Muslim! A group of young boys and girls were under his harsh control, not allowed to augh or even squeek. He slapped their pretty faces and beat them viciously.
I heard that his behavior was found out and he was dismissed.
They handed over his class to a pious, gentle and good man who never spoke unless he had to, and had never said anything to offend anybody. The children forgot the fear inspired by the first teacher and found the second
teacher to be an angel; so they became little devils. They knew he was soft, so they stopped studying and spent most of their time playing. Instead of writing on their slates, they broke them on each others pates.
Two weeks later, I was passing by thp mosque gateway and was shocked to see the first teacher reinstated and once again at the head of the class.
" Lord save us all!" I said. ” Why have they put that ghoul in charge of these poor little angels?" An old man overheard me and said: " Do you know what the king had inscribed on his son's slate when he sent him to school? The severity of the school master is better than a father's love."
Soviet mother gets letter
from
the
In 1983 the mother and father of a soldier fighting in Afghanistan are summoned by the local government in Mikob city near the Black Sea, and a sealed coffin was delivered to them. They were told the body of their son who was serving in Afghanistan was inside the coffin. The family buried the body without opening it because they were told to do so.
The soldier came to Afghanistan in 1982. After serving eight months in Bagram he defects to the Mujahideen.
Very soon he converted to Islam and was renamed Islamuddin. During the seventh offensive he was sent to Nooristan. In Nooristan he learned Islam from Maulawi Abdurrazaq. Later he continued his studies in Paryan, the upper party of Panjshir.
Later Islamuddin decided to fight against the communists and started to work in the commando unit of commander Masood.
By permission from Masood he sent a letter to his family through a Mujahideen contact in Kabul. The letter was posted to the family. When the family read the letter they were surprised. Islamuddin’s parents rushed to the graveyard and open the grave to see
what was inside the sealed coffin. To their surprise they found the coffin full of dust. The word spread quickly and the local authorities arrested the father. The local people gathered and put pressure on the government to release the father of the missing soldier.
Islamuddin's mother wrote a long letter to her son telling him the whole story. She wrote she was extremely happy that his son was alive.
In her letter she said the Mujahideen must be nice people be
Turn to page ( 4 )
The seeker is the finder.
Meaning: "Seek and Ye shall find."
Smart people get the point from a single hint.
Meaning: A word to the wise is sufficient.
** auj
What comes from the heart, goes to the heart.
Meaning: Love begets love.
\Jj* Ki
Death is better than a dog's life.
Meaning: One crowded hour of glorious life Is worth an age without a name.
" -'"jn
||al Apostle (p.b.u.h) sard: "Shall«
..4^.	^	^	. v..	•. Asj.* \:v •• ■.	s


vTVC.::'$ |§
m
■Hfiald:/To Join paftriers in worship™
I ^	-	-	i E3 s Em ■ H	i
Altai, out tA	.	\