AFGHANews Vol 6, No 18 &19 October 1,1990, page ©
Situation in Ghore Province
Abu Panah
I and a local guide started our journey from Peshawar at the beginning of June. The purpose of the trip was to survey the work of health and educational projects in Ghore Province. These projects are financed by Peshawar-based relief organizations. During this trip I visited Tolak, Taiwara and Saghar districts.
The trip from Quetta. Baluchistan, to the border of Ghore took about four day by a truck. We passed Arghandab and Arghistan in Kandahar and part of Helmand Province before entering Ghore. We travelled during the day and did not come under attack from the regime air force.
Taiwara and Saghar are liberated but the Kabul regime maintains a presence in the center of Tolak. The local people estimated the number of enemy soldiers in Tolak at 300 men. They control only their garrison and a few nearby villages.
In Ghore all the seven Mujahideen I parties based in Peshawar are found but | Jami'at is the strongest. In Taiwara and Saghar six parties have formed a council and a district administration. The Hezb (Hikmatyar) refuses to take part in the council because it has been instructed by its leader not do so.
Hezb support for Tanai's coup and refusal to support the creation of the local administration have created tension between, this party and the other Mujahideen. The provincial ulama rave declared Hezb cooperation with Tanai to be un-Islamic. The local people hold the Khalqis responsible for the atrocities committed against them during their rule. A group of Ulama and spiritual leaders from other districts had come to mediate between the two sides to prevent armed conflict between them. Hezb has lost considerable influence in the areas I visited.
The Kabul regime promotes "national reconciliation" in the areas where it has a presence. It exploits poor economic conditions and local differences to mobilize support The Kabul regime scored a victory when it won the allegiance of a Mujahideen commander, Ibrahim Baig, belonging to Harakat of Maulawi Nabi one year ago. Baig's men are righting the rest of the Mujahideen in many districts. The local people claimed that he was still receiving support from his party even afterjoining the Kabul regime.
The enemy garrisons in Ghore are besieged by the Mujahideen. Every few
months helicopters bring supplies to them from Shindand Air Base.
The Mujahideen complained about shortages of arms and ammunition. They were not able to launch sustained attacks on the enemy garrisons because of ammunition shortages.
Ismail Khan, Jami'at commander in Herat, had close relations with the Mujahideen in Ghore. The first major commanders' meeting was held in Saghar to coordinate Mujahideen activities. The people were frustrated when Ismail Khan could not supply them with the weapons and ammunition they needed. This resulted in cooler relations between Mujahideen from Ghore and Ismail Khan.
The ordinary people complained about the lack of unity among the Mujahideen leaders in Peshawar. They blamed them for their problems, even those problems which they had created themselves and were of a local nature. The people of Ghore did not welcome the idea of return of Zahir Shah. They said the previous rulers did nothing for them.
Ghore is a mountainous area in which most people work on farms and keep livestock. Because of the harsh climate, farms products are scanty and the people are poor, though the harvest this year was better than last year. Wheat, barley and peas are the main crops. Apricots, walnuts and mulberry are the main fruits. There are irrigated farms (Aabi) and rain-fed farms (Lalmi) in Ghore. Horses and donkeys ' are used for transportation.
Food was available but at high prices. Each four and a half kilograms of wheat was sold at 1000 Afghanis and rice at 3000 Afghanis. Fourteen kilograms of vegetable ghee went for 8000 Afghanis. A gallon of diesel oil, used in lamps, was sold for 600 Afghanis and one kilogram of sugar for 900 Afghanis. (560 Afghanis makes one US dollar).
Establishment of a bazaar cm the border between Farah and Ghore has made life easier for the people. The bazaar is located in a liberated area and people from many parts of Ghore purchase their needs there.
Growing vegetables is new in Ghore. Now the people grow onions, tomatoes, turnips and potatoes. Travel to the neighboring countries and other parts of Afghanistan has helped introduce vegetables into the diet of the local people.
Carpet weaving has flourished in the past ten years. It is a good source of income for most of the people. Wool is
produced locally or brought from neighboring provinces. Dye and other chemicals come from Iran. Carpets are taken to Herat by .the merchants, from where they are sent abroad.
In the past ten years many clinics have been established in different parts of Ghore. There were no health facilities in the area during the time of King Zahir and President Daud. The person nel of the health clinics have had short training courses in Pakistan or Iran. There were 16 health clinics in the three districts we visited. Some of the clinics were well-equipped and well-supplied. These clinic treated only ordinary diseases. They were helpless when measles and smallpox killed many children in the area each year. Jami'at clinics in Taiwara and Saghar were in good condition. The Jami'at clinic in Tolak treated 60 people each day. Abdul Aziz, a man of good reputa-tion,/was the sole doctor in the clinic.
The roads of the area have been destroyed. The road from Helmand to Farah terminates at the border of Ghore. Ismail Khan planned to construct a road from Farah to Saghar but the local people opposed the idea.
There were many school for children in Ghore. But all of them are primary schools. Many religious schools (Madrasas) are opened in the province. The Ulama in Ghore are very active is support of Jehad and take an interest in community affairs.
The farmers in Ghore do not grow poppy.' Some years ago opium produced in Helmand was transported through Ghore to Herat. Ismail Khan proposed that the Mujahideen should stop this trade through their territory because it gave the Jehad a bad name. The Ulama supported the idea and the transit road was closed to opium.
Cultivation of poppy in Helmand had decreased. The local Mujahideen and Ulama had decided to end cultivation of opium because it was defaming Jehad.
One positive development Ghore was the provision of road security in traditionally insecure areas. In the past bandits would loot passengers' properties while they were passing through the narrow gorges connecting Helmand with Ghore. The Jami'at com mander in Baghran, Abdul Wahid Khan, captured six bandits and pun ished them. He also established security posts along the way. Now passen gers pass the area day and night without fear of loosing their belongings.
in