

 AFGHAN
 NEWS
         A Biweekly. Bulletin Of Jami'at Islam! Afghanistan Post Box No, 264, Peshawar — Pakistan.
             Vol. II, No. s , is / 4 ✓ 1986. * *
                            T.1-1.K RIGHT FOR SELF-DETERMINATION
                                                                                  ,         I
    It  is the natural right of nations to choose their type      of government. Without this a
 nation can not   be called  independent. The problem of Afghanistan was created because -the
 Soviets wanted to take this natural right from Afghans. They wanted to appoint leaders for Afghanistan whom they tbouth were their best slaves.
    The   struggle of the people of Afghanistan is to preserve  this natural right. Four million
 refugees, half a million people killed or missing ail are the price paid to preserve this right.
    When Soviets failed   to impose their will on  the people  of Afghanistan by  the power of
 theft armed forces, they launched their political offensives.
                                                                   *c-v
    At    any occasion they have tried not to admit this right for the people of Afghanistan,
 j'he proximity talks which    have been going on for four years have dropped this item from
 the agenda. The participants have agreed not to talk about the right of the people of Afghanistan
 to determine their future.
 -  We    do not understand what type of peace these people     bring without giving the people
 of Afghanistan their right for self-determination. Equally we do not know how some contries like America and other western countries propose their support for a political solution in which the right for self-determination is not recognised.
    Even if Soviets leave Afghanistan but a puppet regime is imposed on the people of Afghanistan,
 Soviets have achieved    what they invaded Afghanistan for.    Soviets would be  successful to
 pass this message to all small countries that they have the    power and dermination to choose
 the type of government of other countries and there is no one to stop them.
    The right of  our people to determine their future can not be robbed from them ^ by military
 invasions or political negotiations. The presence of thousands of determined, faithful .and brave Mujahideen is a guarantee to that.
                                              A GOOD EXAMPLE
    Recently the  Government of the Islamic republics of Iran circulated a postage stamp which
 shows the uprising of Afghan people against the invaders, Soviets were very disturbed and ordered their puppets in Kabul to protest to the Iranian Government.
    We appreciate these types of steps and think that is a good example for other countries, especially Muslim countries, to follow. Every means should be emplyed to protest against aggression, massacre, and migratory-genocide of the people of Afghanistan.