 •?
4
 I
       In a separate incident in Gulbahar on the 27-12-35, at the mounth of'the ’ Panjshir valley, Mujahideen killed IS Xaroal troops including an officer.' Cn the 26-12-35, the enemy launched a massive attacked Against the {Mujahideen positions in Kohband of Kohistan. Mujahideen under the command of Bahlool ambushdd the invading forces and inflicted great losses on
        them.
        Enemy planes which were bombing Mujahideen positi&ps hit their own positions by mistake and about 30 were killed (thanks God).
        mujahideen from Jaraiat in Jabul Saraj under the command of brigadier Jai-lani carried on the following operations t
        On 25—12—35, the enemy tried to encircle the area from Gulbahar to Tap-, par--Ear of Kohistan but faced Mujahideen resistance. Fighting continued for 5 days, 20 soldiers including a Soviet officer were killed And the enemy failed to achieve its aim.
        20-12-35                                                   %
                                                             ' b      .
        Mujahideen from Jam at in the Mat talc area (between jaul Saraj and Char-ikar) killed two militias .-and wounded 'one.
       21-12-35  '
       They ambushed a Soviet convoy, killed 9 Soviets, destroyed one tank and four trucks full ox ammunition. One Mujahid was injured . These operation took place on the Kabul Salang highway.
       0^25-11-35
       the enemy launched its offensive against Mujahideen positions in the flat parts of Parwan province. Aerial and artillary bombardment was very severe which caused much destruction. Casualties among civilians were•high.
       Mujahideen from J ami at under the command of iiaji Enayat resisted well.
       One hundred enemy soldiers were killed and 7 tanks and trucks were destroyed by MFC fire. Four Mujahids were martyred and 20 others injured. Three AK-47s and some ammunition were captured.
           -« /*; o
       Mujahideen from Jamiat in Totam-Dara under the command of Hukum Khan (who carried signs of more than one hundred injuries on his body) atta.-cked militia posts and killed and wounded a large number of men. Two AX-47S gun and some ammunition wan captured.
       Mujahideen resistance in Bagram was good.
       The conclusion is that enemy failed to achieve its aim of increasing its post in the area and retreated with many casualties.
       Coordination between Jamiat groups was good and Commander Kasoud is happy sJbout the performance of Kuj'ahideen.
       Casualties among civilians due to indiscriminate bombardment was heavy and people lost their houses and properties.