AFGHANews Vol8, No 10 & 11, June 1,1992, page ©
Obituary
Mawlawi Abdur Razaq is dead
Mawlawi Abdur Razaq, 85, renowned scholar and a Mujahid from Pushal valley of Nooristan, died three months ago.
He was buried in his native vil-lage, Guzeen. Mawlawi Abdur Razaq was a respected figure not only in his valley, but also was known in other parts of Nooristan, Laghman and Panjshir valley.
When the communists look power in Kabul in 1978, Mawlawi Razaq declared Jehad. He led the Mujahideen of his valley against the communist regime forces in Laghman. He also brought a force of more than 1500 Mujahideen to help Masood in the neighboring Panjshir valley.
Poor health did not allow Mawlawi Abdur Razaq to continue taking part in armed struggle. But he always served the Mujahideen selflessly.
Nooristan, an area through which supply lines of the Mujahideen passed, became a target of the communist regime's subversive activities. Najib hired Colonel Sarwar, a native of Nooristan and a communist, to organize the people of Nooristan against the Mujahideen.
Sarwar was using material assistance and propaganda to rally the people behind himself. He had succeeded in deceiving Mawlawi Abdur Razaq and getting his approval for landing regime helicopters that brought food and guns to be distributed among the people in Pushal valley. Sarwar pretended that supplies were being smuggled in by his supporters, hidden within the regime army, and Mawlawi Razaq believed this lie. For two long years, this
game was being played successfully. Finally, the Mawlawi became suspicious about Sarwar's intentions and ordered him not leave the valley or he would be declared a non-Muslim. But Sarwar escaped the valley and a dangerous plot was foiled.
There has been very little government authority in that part of Nooristan. The people brought their financial, family and criminal cases to Mawlawi Razaq to solve them. He had extraordinary patience in dealing with the local problems.
Mawlawi served as the host of travellers and the caretaker of sick and wounded. He fed the travellers and the sick personally.
His humane qualities made him a spiritual man, a political leader and a guardian of the Islamic values in a remote area of Afghanistan.
Mawlawi's father was exiled by King Abdur Rahman in Logar. Abdur Razaq returned to Nooristan when he was 20 years old.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS
We are happy to inform you that AFGHANews
has moved from Peshawar to Kabul.
Please send your letters to the following new address:
AFGHANews
P.O.Box 274
Kabul - Afghanistan
From page (4)
a|teE:<ronftselt^
deal with the situation effectively. All the Mujahideen should work tirelessly to pave the way for holding elections in the shortest possible time.
If it is discovered that some aspects of the Peshawar agreement are not practical, members of the Leadership Council can modify them - preferably without exploiting the mass media to air their individual views.
Holding elections will provide a means to solve most of the problems the country is facing. Each political party claims to enjoy the support of the majority of Afghan people. Based on these claims, they are insisting on a greater share in the government. The result of elections will put an end to the exaggerated claims of some parties.
The creation of stable government with the support of the majority of Afghans will pave the way for foreign assistance needed for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
The formation of such a government will also put an end to interference by foreign countries that want to shape the future of Afghanistan to serve their own national interests.
Jami’at is ready to cooperate with other Mujahideen parties for the purpose of consolidating the Islamic government and providing security in Kabul, and
ter, Wad^SaS* was released on Mayi