ftFOHRH HEUS V0L.IV, HO. 5,    »  /371968, PAGE 10'
   murderer ran away, and the police have found no clues to solve the case yet. According' to prof. Majroh's family iaenbers, he did not have arty personal enemies. Then who committed the senseless and brutal crime?
; In our view, most probably it was KGB and KHAD agents who committed the barbaric act. The Russians might have had several reasons for committing the crime:
   1) To eliminate one of their active and knowledgeable opponents.
   2) To terrorize intellectual Afghans who participate in Jehad in Pakistan.
   3> To terrorize the intellectual Afghans who want to come to Pakistan in order to help their people. In this connection we should remember the invitation by IUAK to the Afghans living abroad to come to Pakistan and participate in planning the future reconstruction of their country.
      To create disarray .and divisions among the members of the Islamic Unity of Afghanistan Mujahideen by blaming the murder on some of them.
j 5> To defame the Mujahideen and their organizations by blaming the j murder on some of them.
i
   ¥e strongly condemn the brutal and barbaric murder of prof. Majroh.
   ¥e warn the Russians that tlie Afghan people have seen through their plots and will not be fooled. The more the Russians commit such senseless crimes the more they will earn the disgust of the Afghan people!
                                            NO SMOKING IN PfiNJSWR
   The council of the the commanders of Panjshir was convened in the middle of December. In this meeting military and non-military matters facing the people were discussed and decisions were made.
   line of the items on the agenda was the banning of cigarettes and use of snuff in the valley. In the past the Mujahideen and the people were encouraged tc quit smoking and using snuff. The new decision makes the use of these items against the law. According to this law,
I not only smoking cigarette and using' snuff, but buying and selling them and growing tobacco are also illegal and punishable by law.
   This decision was taken in accordance with the tenants of Islam which forbid using things that make people unhealthy. Economic considerations also had an important role in the decision to ban smoking.
I
i
   In other bases controlled by the Supervisory Council of the North, a campaign against smoking has started, arid the people are quitting smoking cigarettes and using' snuff.
   The decision of banning smoking is bad news for cigarette producing companies but very good news for a nation which is fighting for its freedom and needs to quit all bad habits which do not suite its character.                                                               1