RFBHm hEW6 VOL! Ill, NO. 14, 18/7/ 1907 PACE %
 Thousand of horses packed with.food, medicine, equipment, books and other essential commodities travel in big caravans of a hundred horses for "weeks from border to border of Afghanistan. Like other creatures in Afghanistan these poor animals also suffer from Soviet bombardments, mines and ambushes. Horses are also subjected to severe weather, lack of food, and attack from many kinds of diseases.
 If one trawls to the North along the summer route, one can observe the big job the horses do and the extent to "which they suffer. The blood stains from the legs of the horses have drawn a red line from the border of Pakistan which is extended hundreds of miles to the soft and fertile plateaus of the North. One can witness hundreds of dead horses who have been killed either by the Soviet invaders or the harsh climate, fatigue and disease
 Seeing this one wonders why so far no body has come forward to form a clinic to treat horses and save their precious lives. Even the Mujahideen organizations have not paid attention to the suffering of these poor animals who serve a very important cause
                                                            i             i
 A surprising thing in the whole business of transportation and use of the horse is the old and traditional type of peeking In this system the load is pui on the horses and then tied with long and rough ropes. They do not use hooks but knots which adds to the discomfort of the poor animal
 I do not understand why a new system has not been developed which would be comfortable for the horse and easy for the drivers to use. Looking at some army books one sees that very useful systems have been 'developed Even if that system is introduced on an experimental basis if it proved useful the people would copy it.
 Like Afghan men and women horses also face shortage of foddenalong the way. This is one of the reasons why so many of them die along the route. Horses have become an essential necessity for the resistance and a means of living for a large number of families inside Afghanistan and in the refugee camps A large number of people are busy transporting goods to the country to earn some thing for their families
 Due to increased demand for transportation and enemy attack of supply routes transportation cost have sharply increased and so has the price of the horses. Mujahideen who are fully aware,of the need of more horses encourage the people in the country to keep horses.
 One of the ways is encouragement of the tradition "Euskashi" game which is played by men riding hGrses Horses are also used for riding and transportation of wounded to sale bases inside or out of the country
 Because of the above reasons Soviets are aware of the value of the Afghan horses and shoot them where they see them. I have been a witness when two Jets fired rockets and dropped cluster bombs on a single horse and killed it.
 As long as the war continues the horses continue to play their positive roles and risk their lives to liberate Afghanistan Vithout the contribution of the horses Jehad would not have been in a good as shape as is now.
              , SOLIDARITY WITH THE AFGHANS
                                      The Polish people, themselves victims of Soviet oppression, are developing into some of the strongest supporters for the Afghan resistance. Vithin Poland itself some 400 articles on Afghanistan were written in the underground press during 1985. Almost 800 articles were dedicated to Afghanistan during 1986. Several books on the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan have also appeared within Poland, as well as stamps honoring the Afghan resistance. Several Polish movements have proclaimed the 1st of May as “Afghanistan Resistance Solidarity Day.” In Craxov last summer a. movement called Liberty and peace sold more than 1,300 “shares" at 100 zlotys each in favor of the Afghan resistance. On June 24 an organization from “groupy oporu" (Resistance