AFGHANews Vol7, Noll, June 1,1991, page
rr
Battlefields
Kunduz Province
•	The Mujahideen of Jami'at under the command of Arif Khan killed eight regime soldiers and captured eight others in Gorgozer and Navian, six kilometers southeast of Kunduz city on May 1, MIDIA reported. They also destroyed one tank and one truck and seized 16 Kalashnikov rifles. Six villagers were killed, five Mujahideen were injured and a number of houses were destroyed by the Kabul regime's aerial and artillery bombardments.
•	The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed ten soldiers and one officer, wounded 20 soldiers and captured 16 when they attacked regime security posts close to Kunduz city on May 17, Hindukush News Agency reported.
They seized one tank, one ZPU machinegun, 23 rifles, one DShK ma-chinegun, one mortar, one RPG-7 rocket launcher, 1400 rounds of heavy weapons ammunition and 86 boxes of light' weapons ammunition. One Mujahid was injured in the operation.
Balkh Province
The Mujahideen of Jami'at Islami have recently stepped up their operations against the Kabul regime in different parts of the Balkh Province. Here are the accounts of some of then-recent operations:
•	The Mujahideen attacked Mazar airport's security posts and 20th Division headquarters, killing two officers and wounding several soldiers on May 10. Two officers. Captain Latif and Lieutenant Asif were captured along with five soldiers. They seized two RPG rocket launchers, 12 Kalashnikov rifles, one pistol, two R-105 radio sets and some ammunition.
•	The Mujahideen attacked regime posts in Shahrak area, about seven kilometer northwest of Mazar, capturing 28 Kalashnikov rifles.
•	The Mujahideen attacked regime posts in Langar Khana, five ki-
lometers south of Mazar, on April 29 and 30, seizing 54 Kalashnikov rifles, four RPG rocket launchers, three ma-chineguns, one mortar, one 76 mm howitzer and two radio sets. They captured 46 regime's soldiers.
•	The Mujahideen of Jami'at who were assisted by the Mujahideen of Hezb, Hezb-i-Wahdat and Harakat Inqilab attacked the enemy posts in Cheshma-i-Shefa, 10 kilometers inside the Shulgar valley on May 13 capturing several posts. The enemy casualties is reported to be high, but no figures are given. Twenty Mujahideen were killed and 22 were injured by mines planted by the communists. The Kabul regime retaliated by aerial bombing of the liberated areas killing many civilians, including 12 people of a single family.
Soviets had established the base in Cheslima-i-Shefa to restrict Mujahideen's movement from then-mountainous bases to the flat areas. These posts provided security for the Fertilizer Factory of Mazar, located at the mouth of the valley.
Commander Ata Mohammad, the Deputy Chief Commander of Jami'at Mujahideen in Mazar, told AFGHANews that joint operation became possible after Jami'at solved its differences with local Hezb and Harakat. Jami’at is a dominating force in Mazar and was leading operations in Cheshma-i-Shefa. This attack coincided with operation in Khwaja Ghar.
•	The Mujahideen captured 60 soldiers and seized 100 Kalashnikov rifles, one ZPU (14.5 mm) machinegun, one mortar, one PK machinegun and some ammunition when they attacked the regime forces stationed in Arghoun village, three kilometers from Balkh District, on May 14. The village was liberated. Earlier the Mujahideen of Harakat, Hezb and Hezb-i-Wahdat liberated Chimtal District
I
Badghis Province
•	Ten armed militiamen defected
to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Kushk-i-Kohna sub-District on May 17.
•	Gul Agha, a militia commander, and his 30 men defected to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Qala-i-Naw on May 19, bringing 35 Kalashnikov rifles, one RPG-7 rocket launcher and one R-105 radio set
On the same day, a militia group of 20 men, under the command of Nooruddin, joined Commander Abdul Aziz of Jami'at in Qala-i-Naw, bringing with them 25 Kalashnikov rifles and one PK machinegun.
Herat Province
•	The Kabul regime suffered heavy casualties when it launched an offensive in Zindajan District, west of the city of Herat, on May 4.
Ground attack preceded by heavy aerial and artillery bombardments of Zindajan, Goryan and other liberated areas, west of the city. The Kabul regime had brought militia forces from the neighboring provinces to fight in Herat.
According to Ismail Khan, Mujahideen Chief Commander in Herat, in three weeks of fighting, regime lost 1100 men while 500 of its soldiers were injured. The Mujahideen destroyed more than 70 tanks, armored cars and trades and shot down two jets and two helicopters. The losses of the regime in Rabat Pay and Qala-i-Raig areas ware very high.
Meanwhile, the Mujahideen attacked Herat airport, the headquarters of Herat Division, and regime military units in Adraskan District and cut Herat-Torghundi and Herat-Kandahar roads.
Tens of dvilian population am Mujahideen were either killed or wounded. The enemy destroyed a Mujahideen hospital and communication center in Zindajan.
Aerial bombardments destroying many houses and killing hundreds o animals. The Kabul regime cut the irrigation channel of the district, creating water shortage for the farms and animals. UN office in Zindajan was also bombed by the regime air force.
Communist forces were led by General Abdur Rauf BaigL Regime claimed that the attack was launches "at the request of local population" am "in line with its national reconciliation policy"! It also claimed achieving a major victory against the Mujahideen.
Mujahideen reported that about
50,000	people of Zindajan were forcet to take refuge in Ghoryan. They lack enough food and medicine.
The Mujahideen think that regime
Page (4 )