fiFBHRH HEMS VOL. 111^    N0.1I,   1/6/196?,PIWE 3
he denounces the invasion his beloved country by the Soviets and has opposed the rule of the puppets. In the last ten years of his life he came into close contact with the people of his country who came from ail walks of life, and earned their admiration. The strongest point in Khalili's life was his opposition to the Soviet invasion and the propaganda of the Soviets will not change the view of Afghans about the late Khaliii.
                     NEWS
                    FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS
                            KABUL PROVINCE ^
On 2/5/1987. Mujahideen fired several mortar shells inside the sub-district of Golefera in Oarabagh district. One of the shells hit its target as a result of •which several communists were either killed or wounded.
According to another report sent by commander Anwar, Mujahideen from Jami at ambushed a Russian convoy on May 10, 1987 in Mahipar on the Kabul-Jalalabad Road as a result of which ten tanks and five trucks which were carrying ammunition were destroyed.
The report does not give any figures for enemy casualties. A few Mujahideen suffered slight injuries
                            HERAT PROVINCE
ON 3/5/1987, fourteen enemy jets bombed Ghoryan district as a result of which 81 civilians were martyred and more than 120 others wounded The report adds that a large number of houses were destroyed as a result of the bombardment.
                            BALKH PROVINCE
According to recent reports from the Mujahideen of Jami at Islami in Balkh province, three Russian planes and one helicopter were shot down in that province in mid April. The details of the incidents are as follows:
On 14/4/1987 at 11:00 Am. Mujahideen shot down one of the two jets which were flying in Gorimar area, The pilot of the second Jet. who was afraid of being shot down, ejected himself with parachute and let his plane crash. The two pilots were killed in the incident The planes belonged to the DRA.
On 15/4/1987. a Soviet Jet was hit by the Mujahideen. It crashed in Aghorboy in Sholgar district. Four parachutes were ejected from the plane before the crash Two of the parachutes were empty and the other two landed with two pilots in Bairumshah area.