AFGHANews Vol 8. No 20. October 15. 1992. Daee ft
Editorial ___________________-	:	_________
Jami'at will abide by the Peshawar Accord
The second phase of the transitional period is coming to an end soon. According to the Peshawar agreement a Shura-i:Hal-o-Aaqd (Council of Resolution and Settlement) should have been convened by Oct. 28 to appoint a transitional government for one and half years.
The Shura will not be able to meet on lime. This means that the Leadership Council should either prolong the office term of Prof. Rabbani or appoint another person as a caretaker president, until the Leadership Council chooses a president for the next 18 months.
The easiest and most practical fix is to extend Prof. Rabbani’s office term because it ensures continuity of the government function. Although Prof. Rabbani's four-month term has expired, he spent a month and a half dealing with large-scale, terrorist attacks launched by Gulbuddin Hikmatyar and related peace efforts.
Other parties also share some responsibility for the delay in convening the Shura. Most party leaders spent most of their time outside Kabul, or even outside the country. Their representatives were not in a position to make important decisions quickly. They had to communicate back and forth with their party leaders to evolve their positions.
Jami'at is committed to implementing the Peshawar Accord. Prof. Rabbani has said repeatedly that he will transfer power to whomever the Shura elects.
The rules and regulations for convening the council have been finalized. The number of representatives from each province will be determined by population.
The Mujahideen are being tested once again. Now that they are not in exile, they are in no position to complain about direct outside influence. If they put the interest of Islam and Afghanistan above their personal and parly interests, the way for a peaceful transfer of power will be paved and the foundation of the new Islamic government will be consolidated further.
Hikmatyar's second defeat
After his defeat outside Kabul, Hikmatyar ordered an attack on Herat, causing death and destruction in that city. Hezb launched the attack with the help of Khalqi officers and local militia leaders. .
Herat had been peaceful since the fall of the city to the Mujahideen in April. Government offices and schools were functioning and the security situation in the city was good.
The militiamen in HeraL were pardoned in accordance with the general amnesty announced by the interim government, and were allowed to keep their heavy and light weapons. The militias, however, were not happy with the changes. They were no longer receiving the salary that Najib had payed them and .they were no longer allowed to loot. They resented Ismail Khan's new administration:
Hezb, which had taken over Shindand .air base with the cooperation of Khalqi officers and local militiamen, wanted to exploit the militia’s resentment Lo overthrow the Herat administration.
The Khalqis, militiamen and their Hezb partners launched a massive attack on ihc city on October 1. Their jets and helicopters bombed and rocketed strategic targets. But the attackers failed to achieve their aim. The militia and Hezb leaders were either captured or (led the city, and the attackers suffered heavy casualties.
Calm returned to the city after four days. Within one week, all Herat's districts came under government control. Victory was complete when Shindand air base fell to the Islamic Government on October 14. Ismail Khan termed this "the hue liberation of Herat."	To page (8)
eight days, killing about 100 regime and 30 Soviet soldiers. He seized 100 AK-47 and 30 AK-74 assault rifles. The smoke from the burning convoy could be seen in K^abul about 100 kilometers away. Because of these operations Soviet officers began calling him "General Panah." This operation was also filmed by Andy Skrzypkowiak and photographed by his wife, Christy.
fcanah was summoned to the North in 1986, where he took part in the capture of Farkhar, Kalafgan and Nahrin. garrisons.
He also took part in the fight for the liberation of Taliqan from the control of Setamis, a. communist faction, and in the operation to capture Sayyed Jamal of Hezb Islami, who had ordered killing of several important Jami'at commanders.
When the Islamic army was founded, he was appointed the commander of the 1st battalion. He and his unit played a key role in repulsing Hezb.'s attack on Eshkamish at end of 1989.
Panah’s battalion played a key role in capturing Khwaja Ghar in 1990. He said the battle of Khwaja Ghar was the first major attack by Mujahideen on an enemy stronghold and that he learned a lot of lessons from it.
Panah spent part of 1991 at home, until Masood returned to Panjshir to plan the attack on Kabul. He was assigned to take control of the regime's 2d division in Jabulseraj.
After the fall of Charikar and Bagram, his battalion was the first group flown id Kabul. He played a key role in defending Kabul against Hikmatyar's attacks in April and August. He also took part in "cleanup operations" launched to clear unauthorized armed groups from the capital.
Despite being a brave commander with a marvelous record of achievements, Panah is a shy and humble man who rarely speaks about his achievements.. He is liked by the Mujahideen and local people in the areas he has worked. He is a committed Muslim who favors implementation of Sharia, and a loyal friend of Ahmad Shah Masood, who turned him from an ordinary farmer into an effective military commander.
Panah has four brothers, of which he is the youngest. He is married and has three young sons.