RFGHHtl HEUS UOL.III, HO.3,     1/2/   1M?    PAGE  7
 report the beginning of the unilateral ceasefire announced by the regime. The report sent by these reporters talks about the peoples' eagerness in the Soviet controlled cities to see the withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan.
 These anti-Soviet feelings in the areas under their occupation, the staunch armed resistance all over Afghanistan and unpopularity of the Soviet invasion outside Afghanistan, must have disappointed the Soviets, who expected to sell their colonial war under the cover of friendly co-operation. Contrary to what some people thought the time was not in favor of the Soviet aggressor. The heroic resistance of Afghan people and awareness of the world about the Soviet designs foiled their plans far an easy victory in Afghanistan,
 Soviets must leave or expect higher military and political price for their imperialistic adventure.                                                                    «
                                  SHORTAGES OF FODDER FOR ANIMALS
 According to an informed source from the Ministry of Commerce of the puppet regime, that ministry has ordered purchase of 10,000 tons of fodder for animals. Due to the war situation, burning of crops and lack of rain not only there are food shortages for people but also shortages of fodder for animals.
 Due to this shortage the quality of Qaraqul sheep skin, an import-export element, has gone down and customers are losing interest in buying them.
 The source added that dry fruit forms the main export item of the regime to the Soviet Union. The quality of fruit has lowered due to the war situation and Soviets buy Afghan fruits at low prices in exchange for Soviet made items which are sold at high prices.
                                ISLAM, THE BEDROCK OF THE RESISTANCE
 When we see that all the resistance party names end with word "Islam", every single individual in the resistance demands an Islamic republic in the free Afghanistan; it proves that role that Islam plays an important part in the private and public life of Afghans.
 Islam, as a way of life of all Afghans (except a small, minority of Siekhs), is an important factor in unifying the whole Afghan people in their struggle and in giving them direction in their life.
 Having all that in mind one can understand the purpose of Soviets' and their puppets' propaganda in favour of Islam. To give this propaganda practical dimension, they white-wash the mosques, pay salary for Imams( Islamic scholars who lead the prayer in the mosque) and let some people to go to perform Haj(pilgrimage to Mecca), recite holy Quran on the state-controlled radio, paying visit to the mosques by the party leaders . All that is to disarm the resistance from its ideological weapon and finally defeat it. These are fore-doomed efforts. Soviets applied these tactics against resistance fighters in occupied Central Asia and want to repeat them here. The situation is totally different: The resistance in Afghanistan is not an aimless-struggle and a reaction out of frustration. It is based on firm ideologic basis with political economic and social messages which are demanded by every Afghan.
 This reality has forced the followers of Marx and Lenin to hide their enemity towards religion and even try to show that they support religious freedom for the masses. But it is too late for them in Afghanistan Seven years of the war has educated everyone in Afghanistan and they can differenciate between real and fake.
 World awareness as a result of Mujahideen struggle is high enough and Soviets are not only facing opposition inside Afghanistan but the majority of the people of the world