AE&HAKsws Vol*. Ho 12, June 13.1998, Page 5
Editorial...
continue to commit the mistake of overstaying not only will they pay the price of that militarily hot the political cost of breaching the agreement for Gorbachev will be too heavy.
if the Soviets think that by slowing down the withdrawal pace and prolonging occupation they can retain the regime in power longer and this in turn wifi bring recognition for the regime they are mistaken.
The presence of Soviet troops beside the regime will further discredit it in the eyes of outsiders. There is no chance of getting recognition for the regime from other countries while the Soviet troops are present on Afghan soil.
As far as India is concerned, it has not been a direct party to the conflict and it seems wise that that country should abstain from giving irresponsible statements against the people of Afghanistan.
The people of Afghanistan should be ready for the new development arising from a possible delay in the withdrawal of Soviet troops. Since the Mujahideen were not part of the Geneva accords, mentally they are in a state of war and the I new situation will not cause any serious problem for them.
The peace-loving countries who supported the cause of I freedom of the Afghans for the past years should continue to 1 exert pressure on the Soviets to fulfill their promises and leave Afghanistan as soon as possible. If the Soviets see a strong stand by the international community in this regard they will have to take it into account when they make any decision.
The sacrifices of the people of Afghanistan has brought them to the threshold of an historic victory. No propaganda, no threat and even breaching the Geneva agreement can stop that from happening.
Mujahideen’s victory will have a tremendous impact on the whole world. This will give a moral boost to all those who fight against tyranny: This aspect of the Afghans' victory may be the one most of all disliked by the wrong-doers like ; Rajiv who is guilty of oppression against Muslims and other minorities in India.
"Fain would they extinguish God's Light with their mouths, but God will not allow but that HU Light should be perfected, even though the unbelievers may detest (it)."
HOLY QURAN I S.1X. 32 1
Estalif pottery produced in exile
A young Afghan refugee has opened a pottery factory in Peshawar to revive the traditional handy craft of his home
town.
Abdul Qadir Hakimi, an artist, has opened a pottery making factory in the
University Town of Peshawar to give Afghan refugees and foreigners Estalifi potteries. Estalif is a town 40 Kilometers North of Kabul. It is located on a high ground West of the famous Kabul-Satang road.
The people of one of* the villages in the town were making potteries which were sold all over Afghanistan and attracted the attention of
foreign tourists.
Out of a population of 20,000 in Estalif, 200 men and women were busy making pots. These people had a happy life in their beautiful town.
The clay was brought from a nearby mountain. Some other items needed in preparing the paint were purchased from Kabul.
The April coup of 1970 and then the Soviet invasion of 1979 disrupted the life of the peaceful potters. Heavy bombings in the fall of 1903 and the Spring of 1904 devastated the historic town and killed many of its inhabitants. Now only two persons are working in the town to produce pots probably trying not to let down the art which is part of their history.
Wassuddin. the Chief potter In Peshawar said that he can make 100 pots per day. He admitted that he was only 3011 successful in his first baking of pottery. The reason for this, according to Waisuddin, was lack of knowledge about the local material.
He said the clay used by him is brought from Badabair, outside Peshawar, paint is brought from the market and some materials used in the paint is brought from Tafchar province in Afghanistan.
When the pots are made and dried they are painted. The painted pots are put inside the oven and for five long hours wood is burned.
The temperature of of the oven reaches 1100 centigrade.
After 24 hours the oven is opened and the pots are ready for use.
The Estalif Pottery Firm is making jugs, plates, ashtrays, bowls, flower pots, water pipes and trays.
It was famous in Afghanistan that the food tastes better in Estalifi pets. Now the refugees can enjoy their food in the Estalifi pots in Pakistan.