AFGHANews Vol 8, No 13, July 1, 1992, page ©
turns down peace offer by Masood
/The following is text of conversation between Commander Ahmad Shah Masood and Eng. Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, the leader of llezb Islami, which took place on Friday, April 23. over two-way radio. The purpose of the conversation was to persuade Hikmatyar not to attack Kabul and to join the political .discussions with the other Mujahideen leaders in Peshawar. The leaders were discussing formation of an interim Islamic government to take power from the regime in Kabul. Hikmatyar was not convinced by Masood's assurances and launched an abortive attack on Kabul on April 26}.
Hikmatyar: Wc arc honest about what wc say.. If other parties promise not to try to grab power through conspiracies and collusion with the enemy and consider elections as the only means for forming governments, I guarantee that Hczb will not resort to armed action to impose a government of its own choice on the people. Everybody should realize that the Lime for reaching power through coups have passed. No one in Kabul can give power to anyone. If anyone in Kabul were able to pass on their power to others, they would be able to preserve power for themselves. They are not in a position to do that.
Kabul sent a message to me yesterday that if the Mujahideen did not agree on a formula for the transfer of power by the end or today, they would transfer power to a new administration, and the Watan Party would be dissolved.
I believe that without taking into confidence the people and without the Mujahideen’s consent, it would be impossible to rule Afghanistan.
We should realize that the army, police, militias, Soviet Union and even Warsaw Pact supported Najib but he failed to rule Afghanistan. I feel that the chances for ruling Afghans without their consent and formation of governments through a coup has passed for ever.
My sincere proposal is that we should agree to close the way for reaching power through coups and collusion with the enemy. Lei us create atmosphere of brotherhood and trust among ourselves. Wc should intensify our efforts to make Islam the ruler. Let us promise not to take arm against each other for the sake of reaching power and form a strong Islamic government. __________ - ________________________
I assure you of Hezb's cooperation in this regard.
Masood: If I am correct, you have raised the following three points:
•	The existence of a conspiracy and a plan for a coup
•	The formation of a transitional government
•	Elections
On the subject of conspiracy I share your views that it is not a way for forming a government. A false propaganda has been launched against us and, naturally, these false stories might have reached you. I informed the leaders in Peshawar that the foreign minister of the regime was ready to accept an Islamic government formed by the Mujahideen. You might have not been informed about it.
I want to tell you that after the fall of Charikar and Bagram, the Kabul rc-
•	Joint defense of Kabul in case it is attacked by other Mujahideen groups.
•	If a transitional government is created based on the UN formula, the combined forces of the Supervisory Council, Rashid Dostum and ihc regime would provide security for ihc Kabul-Hairatan road. What is the truth?
Masood: As I said earlier, Wakil had come with a proposal simi-at to a transitional government. I rejected the idea and told him that it"was not acceptable to the Mujahideen. During his second visit, he said that he and his colleagues were ready to accept the Mujahideen government. I informed the three leaders that 1 mentioned earlier and also MawIaWi Haqqani. I told them that the other side had accepted Mujahideen government and you should discuss the issue and reach an
gime was destabilized. The Kabul rul- ^agreement.
ers requested talks and I agreed to meet with Abdul Wakil. He came with two proposals: one from his friends and another from himself. His friends' proposal was formation of a coalition government and Wakil's view was that lime for a coalition government had passed and it was better to hand over power to the Mujahideen. 1 told him in clear terms that the Afghan people and the Mujahideen cannot accept less than a Mujahideen government. 1 encouraged him to persuade his friends to accept a government formed by the Mujahideen. When he returned the next day, he said they were ready to accept the Mujahideen government.
After receiving this message, I contacted Prof. Rabbani, Prof. Sayyaf and Prof Mujaddidi through radio and told them about the decision of the Kabul regime. I told them to agree on formation of a government to take power in Kabul. This is the key point that the oihcr side has accepted the Mujahideen government. There is no plan of coup or grabbing power through military action.
Hikmatyar: I have learned from the people you had a meeting with, and from General Raft, who came to meet me yesterday, that the Kabul regime had proposed four points:
•	The formation of a coalition government.
•	Abstention from launching- attacks on the security belts around Kabul.
Hikmatyar: Abdur Rahim Hatif (the vice president of the regime) also announced that the regime was ready to transfer power to a Mujahideen govern ment. This decision has been taken by regime because pressure on Kabul has increased; activities of the Mujahideen around Kabul has escalated and the number ^of Mujahideen around Kabul has increased.- Your and other parlies’ rejection of a coalition government forced them to abandon the idea of formation of a coalition government and agree wilh the Mujahideen government.
Masood: I do not insist those arc the factors that forced them to accept the Mujahideen government. God will reward those who have played an effective role. They have accepted formation of the Mujahideen government. Halil also announced this on radio and TV.
Since they have accepted formation of an Islamic government and 1 have announced that I will not enter Kabul by force, do you still feel the need for launching attack on Kabul?
Hikmatyar: Yes, I think, we have no other choice. There are many reasons: Firstly, there is no Islamic government in Kabul yet. Secondly, they want to put some conditions on the formation of government. Thirdly, there arc a large number of forces stationed in Kabul which they should not -be Forces of General Momcn are stationed on the southern front.
Despite your rejection of the re gime’s proposal, your forces have gone