AFGHANews Vol7, No 5, March 1,1991, page Q
jo.Boss264,. Peifew t; (0521) 4igl,;;FA^|52n 42410 ; |§
Ms
ps*l
Editorial
v
Jehad enters the critical phase
As the harsh Afghan winter comes to an end, people want to know what the Mujahideen's course of action will be in the new Afghan year, beginning on March 21. Afghan Jehad has entered a critical phase of its history. The Mujahideen's military and political performances this spring will have a profound affect on the future of Afghanistan.
Two years have passed since the Soviet troops withdrew their uniformed soldiers from Afghanistan but the Kabul regime is still in power. The Mujahideen's shortcomings, political and military, are the main reason for the regime's survival.
The major weakness of the Mujahideen is their lack of unity. Without unity it will be difficult to prepare the ground for a large-scale offensive against the Kabul regime. Although efforts for better cooperation and coordination have not ieen successful due to understandable internal and external factors, formation of the Council of Commanders was a step in the right direction. Every effort should * made to help this process.
The Mujahideen must be aware of declining outside interest in their cause. Although they are still fighting a protracted guerrilla war, they cannot count on outside assistance forever. They must fully exploit the present situation to win the war as quickly as possible.
In order to do a better job in the new year, the Mujahideen should have used this winter for preparation and planning of their operations.
Since all the Mujahideen parties say that the Kabul regime is not acceptable to them, they should multiply their efforts to bring it down as soon as possible.
But unfortunately, events outside Afghanistan take most of the resistance eaders' time, such as that wasted on wrangling over the pros and cons of the Gulf war. Afghans should pay attention to their own problems because they are facing a serious situation at home.
Every Afghan now. should concentrate on ways of winning the war against the Soviet puppets and replacing it with an efficient, legitimate and representative government.
JI.A condemns attack on aid bodies
Jami'at Islami Afghanistan condemns terrorist actions against the relief organizations helping Afghan people.
Recently persons unknown hurled a hand-grenade was at the offices of Afghanaid, a British relief organization. It caused no casualties. Some days later, a bomb exploded in the office of the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan, injuring one person, who later died.
Whoever is behind these deeds and whatever their motives, such acts call for condemnation because they are aimed at hurting innocent people and harming Jehad.
Private relief organizations have done a good job, by bringing aid to needy Afghans, both inside Afghanistan and in the refugee camps. They also have provided jobs for a lot of Afghans.
Since the attacks took place after the start of the war in the Gulf, they might be directed against Western organizations. If that is the case, pro-Saddam elements have chosen their targets poorly because attacks on aid organizaions, which help victims of Soviet aggression, will not bring them good publicity.
There is a strong possibility of KHAD's involvement in these attacks. Such attacks serve the interests of the Kabul regime, because they may frighten the aid organizations; at the same time the Mujahideen could be blamed for the attacks. Similar incidents in the past have been fully exploited by Moscow and Kabul to defame the Mujahideen.
The anti-Western rhetoric of some Mujahideen organizations and their state-
Tum to page (5)
UN Resolution calls for holding freeelections
A consensus resolution jointly moved by Pakistan and the USSR calling for the holding of free and fair elections in Afghanistan was unanimously passed by the UN Human Rights Commission in Geneva on February 18.
The resolution reiterates that the preservation of the sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and non-aligned and Islamic character of Afghanistan is essential for a peaceful solution of the Afghanistan problem. It emphasizes holding free and fair elections in Afghanistan and states that there should be a dialogue through democratic procedures, including free and fair elections, for a broad-based government.
The resolution calls upon all states to provide adequate financial and material resources to the coordinator for United Nations humanitarian and economic assistance programmes relating to Afghanistan for the purposes of the speedy repatriation and rehabilitation of the Afghan refugees in their country as well as for its economic and social reconstruction.
It recommends consideration of the issue in the next session of the commission. The matter relating to the situ ation in Afghanistan will remain under constant consideration of the human rights commission.
Few refugees return home
The office of the UN High Commission for Refugees in Geneva says that since the repatriation program of Afghan refugees was launched last year, a total of 13,644 families have returned to Afghanistan.
The report says that up to February 24, 9050 families from NWFP and 4594 families from Baluchistan have left for Afghanistan.
The office says if one counts the number of family members, a total of 95,508 persons have left so far.
Returning refugees sell their ration cards to UNHCR office for a one-time cash and wheat bonus. When the UN launched the program it was expected that a large number of refugees would return, but that did not happen because of continued fighting in Afghanistan.