AFGHANIS Vol 4, No 17, Sept&e&fcsr i, 1988, Page 4
From	the diary of Jehad....
Picks
We saw a group o! people from Munjan valley carrying shovels, picks and other tools to repair the road leading to Nooristan. They were led toy a man who was a militia commander until last year and now is the Mujahideen commander.
The first Mujahideen post is manned by the Mujahideen belonging to Saved Najmuddin. They were smartly dressed and looked alert and resourceful. From their faces one could say that they were serious people understanding the importance of their job — providing security for the Mujahideen conveys.
While sleeping under the stars we could see the search lights of the Soviet border towns. From here it is two days walk to the Soviet border.
Kookcha
On our way we passed by the captured garrison of Kuran which is located on a small air field along the Kookcha River, Dr. Abdullah one of Maseod's aides who was present in the operation against the garrison, and now travelling with us described hew the Mujahideen launched their attack.
The size of the garrison was too large and the Mujahideen must have had tremendous difficulties to reach their assigned targets.
The villages around the captured garrison were populated. Fields were cultivated and the people lived a normal life,
Uskaeer, a village a few kilometers from the garrison was partially destroyed.
People had started reconstructing their houses. This village has plenty of apricot trees,
On the top of the hill
overlooking the village H people are buried. They lost their lives in the Kuran battle. Their graves are marked by special flags which are raised on the graves of martyrs all over Afghanistan. Passer-toys pray for their souls because the liberation of the valley and opening of the route become possible after they sacrificed their lives.
Soft drink
From Uskazer to the town of Anjuman is six hours walk. From Anjuman you can go to Panjshir or Takhar.
The people in this town are making a good deal of business. There are many shops and tea houses.
Essential commodities are being brought from Takhar and sold to the people. In the shops one can find soft drinks, toilet paper and candies of all types,
A lapis lazuli mine is located in Kuran-Munjan valley .This mine has been under the control of the Mujahideen since 1979. It is being exploited and the stone is transported and sold in Pakistan, This has had a positive effect on the economy of the region.
At some stages the presence of the mine was a source of tension among the people, After Keran-Munjans liberation and the reorganization of the area the situation has improved and even the Ismail la community has been given a share in the mine, something they never dreamed ef.
There Is one day s walk from Anjuman to Panjshir and on the passes there is a beautiful natural lake which is full of trouts.
The journey from Pakistan to the upper part of Panjshir takes six days, it is an easy and secure route.
Chilians
admire
Afghans
victory
THE people of ChiU
show great interest in
the struggle of the
Afghan people and
admire their courage
and achievement/1 This was stated by Daoud Mir who visited ChiU on the invitation of a private human rights organisation to tails about Afghanistan.
The visit started on July the 24th end tested for one week, jam T at delegation had a series of activities including press conferences, talking to university students and meeting with the members of the Islamic community.
The delegation felt that the people of Chili were eager to know about the developments in Afghanistan but there was no regular flow of information.
The Chili press, radio and television gave a good coverage to the visit of the delegation.
According to Daoud, the Afghanis' was a major source of inf ormation for the committee which is propagat ing the cause of Afghans.
The people of Lat in America can easily identify themselves with Afghans as a part of the third world countries and are eager to discover the factors which made the struggle of Afghans against the Soviets so popular and successful.