AFGHANews* Vol 5, No 22, November 15, 1989, page ©
Soviets ask British Lord to arrange exchange of POWs
Lord Bethel, a member of the European parliament who works for the release of POWs, has said that the Kabul regime has given him a list of 11,000 people killed by the communists after they came to power in 1978.
He completed a five-day visit to Kabul, at the invitation of the Soviets, to secure release of Soviet prisoners of war. During his stay in Kabul he visited the Puli-Charkhi prison.
Lord Bethel has been able to secure the release of three Mujahideen from the Kabul regime.
He met with Prof. Mujaddidi, the President of the Interim Government, discussing with him the issue of the exchange of prisoners. He has advised the Mujahideen to release some Soviet
prisoners.
The Soviets say that there are 313 missing soldiers who are thought to have been captured by the Mujahideen.
A few months ago, the mothers of some of the missing soldiers came to Pakistan to lobby for the release of the prisoners.
The Mujahideen have indicated that they are ready for a total exchange of Soviet prisoners with the Mujahideen prisoners. There are no exact figures for Mujahideen in regime captivity, but some estimate the number to reach several thousand.
The Mujahideen also claim that some of the prisoners are kept in the Soviet Union. The Soviets have denied any presence of Mujahideen prisoners on Soviet soil.
US special envoy discusses Afghan situation with the resistance leaders
The US special envoy to the Mujahideen, Peter Tomsen, has begun his third trip to Pakistan to discuss the Afghan situation with resistance leaders.
He met the president of the interim government. Prof Mujaddidi, and minister of reconstruction. Prof. Rabbani, on November 8. In additon to Peshawar, he will visit Quetta and Islamabad.
The present military and political situation was the main topic the US envoy discussed with the resistance leaders.
The stalemate in the military situ-
Fighting prevents holding elections
Maulawi Younus Khalis, the Interior Minister of AIG and the leader of Hezb Islami (Khalis group), has said that because of the war, conditions are not suitable for holding elections in Afghanistan.
Two parties, Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) and NIFA (Gailani), are asking for elections for a council to endorse the Interim Government.
Other parties, while accepting in principle the idea of holding general elections, argue that holding polls is not practical at the moment, and that work to pave the way for holding elections should continue.
arion has alarmed the US government. Among political issues, broadening the base of the interim government, and how to gain the support of Zahir Shah for the interim government, are much discussed. .
US officials publicly met Zahir Shah some weeks ago in search of a political solutioin to the problem.
By not recognizing the interim government, the US government has left its options open in search of a political solution.
In the past two weeks, other US experts have visited Pakistan to reassess the situation.
November 10,1989 Aqrab 19,1368
Max (C°) Min.
Kabul rain	13 3mm	7
Salang rain	-6 11mm	-7
Jabulseraj rain	15 11mm	7
Chekhcharan 9 rain 7mm		-7
Herat 12 rain 4mm		3
Faizabad 9 rain 8mm		4'
Shiberghan	13	7
Mazar	13	9
Kunduz	14	9
Farah	20	6
Zaranj	23	9
Jalalabad	26	11

Please help us publish AFGHANews!
Dear reader.
We have been sending you AFGHANews free for some time. As you know, our resources are shrinking daily and we find we must ask you for help.
If you would like AFGHANews to be published and sent to you, please send your donations to the following account number:
JEHAD
Account No. 735-37
Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala
(Jehangirabad) Peshawar- Pakistan