RFGHRH HEMS VOL.Ill, HO.19, 1/10/ 190? PR6E2
 so-called National Reconciliation program has been rejected by Afghans, will the General Assembly pass a strong resolution calling for the withdrawal of Soviet troops or soften its previous resolutions to delight an aggressor?
 The resolutions of the UN in the past have been soft and were not naming the Soviet Union as the aggressor. It will be a tragedy if nor the Soviets' propaganda softens the tone of the resolutions further or there is a considerable decrease in the number of votes supporting the resolution. The less political pressure on the Soviets the less interested they will be in finding a real political solution to the problem they have created,
                                     NEWS
                                   FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS
                                 PUSHGHOR GARRISON RETREATED
 The enemy fled from Pushghor and Dahan-i-Shaba in the evening of September 19 and now has taken positions in Yaka-Toolof Omarz.
 The reasons for the enemy's withdrawal are manifold. First of all, the enemy has failed in its plan for "Block Warfare". Over a long period of time, the enemy could not succeed in making the Panjshiri people return to their villages, in forming militia troops, in keepias the Mujahideen busy and wearing them- down, in preventing the organizational work of Mujahideen outside Panjshir , and in stopping the war outside Panjshir, especially in the Salang.
 Secondly, the daily "attrition war" waged by the Mujahideen inflicted heavy casualties on the enemy, without it being able to do anything about it.
 Thirdly, the enemy seems to have learned about the Mujahideen's latest plan to attack the garrisons in Paishghor,Shaba and Tanbana.
 The above factors caused the enemy a great defeat in its general plan in Panjshir.
 It should be added that in Pushghor garrison the 444 commando unit of the Kabul regime vas positioned. Once before, in the summer of 1985, it was captured by the Mujahideen. Af that time, the Mujahideen seized 400 soldiers and officers along with their weapons.
 Pushghor is located about 50 Km. inside the main Panjshir valley. The present number of enemy troops in Pushghor Garrison and adjacent posts was estimated around 500 men, mainly DRA.
 The Mujahideen's victories in capturing the Farkhar, Nahreen, and Kalafgan garrisons, as well as the continous pressure on itself, had made the Pushghor garrison fearful that it will be an easy target for the Mujahideen.