AFGHANews Vol 8, No 13, July 1,1992, page ©
the people living in the cities were not afraid of it. The attempts by the Kabul regime to frighten the people from Jami’at proved ineffective. The Jami’at presence in Kabul is responsible for relative security in the capital and a ray of hope for peace in Afghanistan. If Jami’at plans had not been disrupted by Hezb Island's attack on Kabul, the capital would have been a much safer place than it is now.
Ustaz has many internal and external enemies who do not spare a movement to spread false rumors about him and his party. But he rarely confronts the rival parties who indulge in such propaganda. A close look at the publications of different Mujahideen panics will show that Jami'at had adopted a conciliatory policy towards the rival Mujahideen parties. The most recent example of this is Jami'at's restraint to- -wards the flood of accusations lcvclcd-by Prof. Mujaddidi in his last days in office as the head of state.
Some of this propaganda brands Jami'at as the party of Tajiks. But Jami'at is an Islamic movement and belongs to all sections of the Afghan society. It has served as a link between different geographical and ethnic regions of Afghanistan.
Jami'at set a good example in the liberated areas. Il provided health and education services to the people; it built roads and irrigation channels and helped trade to flourish. Jami'at's areas were the safest in Afghanistan. It had set up a shadow government in the liberated areas which could compete with the regime.
Ustaz Rabbani began its struggle in 1957 when he was still a student of Sharia School in Kabul. The poor economic situation in the country, corruption of government officials, social injustice, the indifference of the government officials towards the leach-, ings of Islam and the threat posed by communists To-Islam and Afghanistan forced him and his friends to declare a war against the ruling system.
Although the Islamic Movement had a strong anti-communist dimension, it would be wrong to call it just a reaction to the upsurge of communism. The aim of the movement was to introduce fundamental changes in all aspects of the Afghans lives.
To wage an effective struggle for achievement of his aim, Ustaz began to study revolutionary literature written by contemporary Muslim scholars. He was a good studenL and a capable writer.
After graduation from the Faculty of Islamic Law, he was accepted as an associated professor in the same college. After two years of. teaching, he
went to Egypt to study in the famous Al-Azhar University. Getting a Master degree in Islamic philosophy, he relumed to Kabul. In addition to teaching in Sharia Faculty, he taught Islamic subjects in the faculties of literature, education, law and police.
' Prof. Rabbani served as the editor-in-chief of Shariat, a monthly magazine, published by the Faculty of Islamic Law. He also wrote articles for many magazines and papers in Kabul. A review of these articles throws light on his way of thinking.
The Jami’at leader visited Turkey and Pakistan as part of his academic, work. In Turkey, he came in contact with the followers of Saeed Norsi, a great scholar, Sufi and Mujahid. He also learned Turkish language.
In Lahore, he met with Mawlana Maududi, the founder of Jamaai Islami of Pakistan. They discussed the future of the Islamic Movement in Afghanistan and the region.
In Egypt, Ustaz came in contact with Muslim Brotherhood. He was a witness to brutal suppression of the movement by Nasir’s regime and shameful defeat of The Arabs by Israel. These meetings and events had an affect on the way ,of thinking of Ustaz Rabbani and provided a spiritual link between the Islamic Movement in Afghanistan and the movements in other parts of the world:
When the Islamic movement in Afghanistan decided to organize itself in 1972, Prof. Rabbani was appointed as the leader of the parly which was named Jami'at Islami Afghanistan. Jawanan-i-Musulman (Muslim youth) was ihe students wing of lhc party.
As a result of Daud's coup, the communists spread their influence in the government. The Islamic Movement considered Daud a bridge through which communists wanted to reach power. The leaders of the movement tried to persuade Daud to abandon
his pro-communist policies and give more freedom to the Islamic Movement. Daud told Prof. Niazi, a senior leader of the movement, that he was not opposed to Islam but was opposed to the Islam of Qala-i-Jawad (a reference to Mujaddidi family living irr the village of Qala-i-Jawad, West of the city of Kabul.
The spread of communism under Daud forced the Islamic Movement to work inside the army. The work was supervised by Eng, Habibur Rahman, a leading students leader later killed by Daud/He took directions from the party leader. When Habibur Rahman was arrested the work did not stop. The job was given to Hikmatyar, but he did not consult the party leader very often. Daud got information about the activities of Jami’at and a crackdown began. Many leaders of the party were imprisoned. Ustaz Rabbani managed to leave the country.
The abortive military operations in Panjshir, Laghman, Kunar and Paktia was in contradiction to the aims set by its leader. This jnistakc committed by Hikmatyar let the differences within Jami'at surface and finally resulted in the creation of Hezb in exile.
. Ustaz Rabbani was bom. in Faizabad, the center of Badakhshan Province, in 1940. His ' father, Mohammad Yousuf was a God-fearing man.
Ustaz studied primary and secondary schools in Faizabad before entering Darul-Uloom Sharia School in 1956. Ustaz is married and has severa children. His eldest son, Salahuddin, is a student at Riyadh University.
Ustaz belongs to Yaftal tribe and his mother tongue is Persian. He speaks Arabic and Pushtu fluently and can communicate in Urdu, Turkish and English. Despite his preoccupations, he studies books and reads Holy’ Quran regularly. His kindness and polite man ner has earned him a lot of friends.