AFGHANews Vol 6, No 12, June 15, 1990, page ©
Badakhshan Province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured 200 armed enemy soldiers and shot down an enemy transport plane in Faizabad, the provincial capital of the Badakhshan, Hindukush News Agency (HNA) reported.
The Mujahideen under the command of Basir Khalid attacked the enemy in Dasht-i-Layaba, near Faizabad, on May 22. 200 soldiers surrendered to the Mujahideen bringing their guns with them.
The Mujahideen shot down a regime transport plane when they attacked Faizabad airport with heavy weapons on May 31. The landing plane caught fire after it was hit, and its passengers were killed.
Faizabad, besieged by the Mujahideen, is supplied by air. Transport planes are used by regime officers for travel to and from the city.
According to another report by the same source, the Mujahideen under the command of Basir Khan damaged an enemy helicopter when they attacked Faizabad aiiport on April 30.
The source, quoting Basir Khan, says that a night raid on the resistance positions by the communists was repulsed when the Mujahideen killed 15 attackers.
Takhar Province
The Mujahideen from the Supervisory Council have destroyed 15 regime tanks and armored cars in Khawja Ghar and have killed a prominent militia commander, HNA reported.
The Mujahideen attacked the enemy position in Khwaja Ghar on April 27. In two weeks of fighting, 15 fighting vehicles were destroyed, two posts were captured and some weapons were
seized. Twenty enemy soldiers, including a prominent Militia commander, Haji Fazl Haq, were killed and many other were injured. Two Mujahideen were killed and two injured in the attack.
Enemy jets bombed the positions of regime troops by mistake, killing and wounding many soldiers.
The Kabul regime uses Khawja Ghar as the capital of Takhar since the Mujahideen have liberated Taliqan.
The Mujahideen under Cmdr. Piram Qul foiled an enemy attempt to capture the old city of Rustaq on May 23.
The attack started at five o'clock in the morning and fighting between the two sides continued for six hours. The communist forces retreated after the Mujahideen killed 30 soldiers, injured four and captured five.
Baghlan Province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at liberated a strategic height from the control of regime militiamen on May 27, HNA reported.
In the half-hour attack, three militiamen were killed and 11 injured. The Mujahideen seized 15 Kalashnikov rifles, one PK machine-gun, one rocket launcher and one mortar. Three Mujahideen were killed and seven injured in the attack. The next night the enemy fired two BM-27 rockets on the liberated hill, Takht-i-Shahabadal, but caused no casualties.
Regime forces, who had the support of Amir Rasool, attacked Hofian and Hasantal bases of the Supervisory Council on May 18. The attackers were forced to retreat after suffering heavy casualties.
Amir Rasool is a commander of Hezb Islami Hikmatyar in the center of Baghlan. He has developed close contact with militias belonging to the Sayyed of Kayan. In the recent months
they have launched several joint operations against Nahrin District, which is controlled by a Supervisory Council commander, Abdul Hay Haqjo.
Kunduz Province
A group of 40 armed robbers has been disarmed by the Mujahideen, HINA reported.
The group, headed by Karim Qul, was armed with heavy and light weapons. The decision to take action against the bandits was taken by the Mujahideen council in Kunduz. The ringleaders of the bandits, Karim Qul and Mohammad Akbar, were arrested and handed over to the judicial authorities of the Mujahideen to be tried.
The 40 thieves had made life for the people of Kunduz difficult by looting their property.
The Mujahideen under Commander Abdul set fire to a tank and killed many soldiers on an ambush team near Alcheen Bridge outside the city of Kunduz.
The enemy soldiers had laid an ambush against the Mujahideen, which was discovered and foiled.
Samangan Province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at destroyed one tank and killed some KHAD personnel in Aibak on May 24.
Parwan Province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured five enemy posts on Jawzak Mountain of the Koh-i-Safi on May 29 and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy.
12 soldiers were killed and 11 captured. They seized 17 guns. One Mujahid was killed and seven were injured.
Jawzak is located east of the city of Kabul, overlooking Kabul Airport. After rockets were fired into the airport, the Kabul regime set up security posts in the area to out-range the Mujahideen rockets.
Koh-i-Safi is a sub-district of Bagram. This area overlooks the Bagram Air Base, the Kabul-Jalalabad Highway and the Kabul International Airport. For some years the area was used as a transportation route by the Mujahideen. The area provides shelter for the Mujahideen operating in the flat areas in Shemali and Kabul.
Turn to page (7)