—  —-— AE&HAHevs Vol 4, Na 17, S®pxmfo®r l< 1988, Page 6
Russians destroy every survival means in Panjshir
“IT is here that one can see the vicious, deliberate and wanton destruction of the Communist forces.
Throughout this region everything possible has been destroyed. There Is barely a home left- standing. Particularly appalling are the villages of Tawafch, Abdara, and Korabsu These villages have been bombarded far beyond the needs of mere destruction to the state where, from a distance, they resemble fr eaks of geological activity,
The reasoning behind such excessive annihilation of the very existing of human dwellings is impossible to comprehend."
This was stated in a report prepared by a team of experts who visited the Panjshir valley to assess the scale of destruction and study ways of helping the people in that devastated valley. The team was sent by the relief organisations based in Peshawar at the request of Coaunandef Msssod.
The delegation observed the return el internal refugee© to the valley. The returning refugees get food assistance from the Mujahideen, This support will be insufficient for the increasing number of returning refugees.
Therefore, it is essential that immediate provision be made for nutritional requirements of the rapidly i growing population in the valley.
Having questioned many refugees it became abundantly clear that their prime concern was the
| rebuilding of their homes.
Most of those who had returned were sleeping under the stars. There is a great need for wood with which to construct the roofs.
Since most of the standing timber has been destroyed by the occupying forces * this will have to be brought in. It was reported that such roofing timber was available in districts outside the valley, however, the cost of buying and transporting it to Panjshir amounts to approximately 1,400 US dollars per six room house, Virtually no family has such resources.
About short-term agricultural assistance the delegation recommends the rebuilding of irrigation channels, the supply of good quality wheat seed and the provision of some tractors for plowing and leveling the fields.
The delegation's recommendation for long-term assistance to revive agricultural activities in the valley include;
The continued supply of improved seed; the increased supply of tools and materials needed for rehabilitation of irr igatioa channels; the giving of drought oxen to the farmers and introducing some tractors and the supply of agrochemicals for the protection of crops.
The report stresses the need for Introducing livestock into the valley. It recommends giving cash to the population to buy sheep, goats, milk cows and drought oxen. The need to set up a veter inary clinic in the valley is aiso
recommended.
The report emphasises the need for de-mining the valley as a necessary step for re-introducing livestock.
The report considers the presence of thousands of mines a great problem in the way of rehabilitation and reconstruction.
The delegation recommends the need for the improvement of medical facilities, retraining el paramedics and nurses and the introduction of a vaccination program. Concerning educational activities in the valley the report stresses the need for reorganizing the schooling system and the provision of proper books,
To help the reconstruction I of the valley, Masood emphasizes building 200 kilometers of new road and 11 bridges inside the valley.
The delegation who spent one month inside the country expressed its impression about the visit in the following words;
"We have been deeply impressed during our journey by those who have returned and were working with the barest minimum to recreate their homes and land. It is our responsibility to ensure that the level of aid provided does not undermine the unique spirit of the Afghans. Their inner strength and self-reliance coupled with an appropriate level of outside assistance will create a solid foundation from which ^ revitalized Afghanistan can emerge/1