-------------    AFGHANews	Vol	5,	No	1,	January	1,1989, page 7
Formation of interim government insures total victory
THE military victory of the Mujahideen over the Soviet forces is an undeniable fact but the Mujahideen have gone only half of the way. The important job of the creation of a stable political system is yet to be completed.
The Soviets invaded Afghanistan to impose a puppet regime on Afghans. They made use of their military might ruthlessly. They made use of different kinds of tactics and all sorts of weapons in their arsenaL
In ten years of the war they destroyed 75% of the villages ad towns, killed more than half a million Afghans and forced more than five million to seek refuge outside Afghanistan.
Afghans put up a heroic resistance. Without proper weapons and appropriate organization they fought an uphill battle against the Red Army. Finally the Soviets were forced to re-consider their policy and started to leave without achieving their aims. This was indeed a miracle of our time.
The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and continuation of the war for nine years has created problems for Afghans which will not end by the withdrawal of Soviet troops. The Soviet invasion destroyed the existing political system in Afghanistan.
The major task after the war is creation of a stable political system to give the country the stability which is necessary to put the foundation of a new Afghan society and start reconstruction of the country.
During the war, the Mujahideen created a local administration to deal with the problems of the people. These administrations have a local nature and their level of development depends on the military and political conditions of the local areas.
These civilian infra structures have played a positive role in running the affairs of different areas and continue to provide stability for those areas in the future.
The size and the type of organization in each area is different arid local customs and traditions have put their effect on the form of these organizations. In the ideal situation, the expansion of these local administration structures could have expanded to regional and finally national level and could have filled the gap created by the war.
By A.H. Mansoor
But it did not happen because of the withdrawal of Soviet troops took place as a result of a political decision not as a result of the natural development of the war.
After the withdrawal of the Soviet troops and the fall of the regime, the formation of a central government which has the support of Afghans is of vital importance.
The way this government will be formed depends on the way the regime is forced out of power. If the regime surrenders without much fighting the existing institutions in the capital and other cities can form the base for the, formation of the new government The Resistance will need to provide senior leadership for these organizations but the machinery itself could continue to function. In this type of development the transfer of power takes place smoothly and a chaotic situation will be avoided.
, In the second option the regime will continue to resist and the victory come through military action. The task of forming government will therefore will have to be more difficult. The Mujahideen not only have to provide senior officers in big positions but have to find clerks, book-keepers and provide them with pens, stationery and typewriters. It will be a tedious job. In any case, the Resistance needs to pave the ground for the transfer of power and formation of a temporary central government before reaching the final stage of the war.
The transitional administration that the Resistance should agree upon must be broad-based to get the confidence of different sections of the Afghan society. There are two Alliances, the seven party Alliance based in Peshawar and eight party Alliance based in Iran, refugees, religious mamas, field commanders and people who have lived under the control of the regime but are not communist The Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen already has stressed the need far abroad-based government representing all sections of the Afghan society.
If a head for the stale is chosen and a representative council is formed most of the job is done. The Alliance had agreed on such arrangements but the. way the proposed council should be elected has remained controveisial. In
the face of the prevailing situation in Afghanistan and shortage of time the easiest and quickest method should be adopted.
The Mujahideen Alliance could be criticized for it slow pace. If the Soviets withdraw their forces by February 15, there is little time left to accomplish the job. The Alliance's decision to send a. delegation to talk with the Mujahideen parties based in Iran was a wise step but it came very late.
It is hoped that all aspects of the problems are discussed with them and proper steps are taken.
The Mujahideen leadens have a special responsibility to devote their time and energy to find ways of getting out of the present situation. If this opportunity is missed because of petty issues among the parties, it may be lost forever. Lack of agreement on the future form of government could lead to an uncertain situation and will prolong the suffering of the people.
The Soviets will be happy to see a blood bath in Afghanistan to cover their crimes. They have tried to divide Afghan society on ethnic, linguistic and regional lines.
In Taif, Vorontsov, the Soviet deputy Foreign Minister, was defending one section of Afghan against others.
A free, Islamic and stable Afghanistan will be a total victory far the cause of freedom. It will provide a living example for small countries to stand on their own feet and defend their freedom and honor against aggressors. This is why the Soviets do not want to see such a model emerge.
The enemies may wish anything they want but the future belongs to Afghans. There is no doubt all Afghans want a free, Islamic, prosperous and peaceful Afghanistan. The Mujahideen leaders should take appropriate steps to end this uncertain situation and pave the road for a total victory-something that Afghans have sacrificed so much for and therefore deserve to achieve. ***
Do not forget that Soviets have promised to the world community that they will pullout their troops from Afghanistan by
February 15,1989.
Do not trust their words, wait for their action.