xiui. iviujauuiui icsuneu in conunuea ciasnes Between Hezb torces and the forces of the Defense Ministry, leaving hundreds of people dead or wounded. Continued fighting was harmful to the cause of Jehad from which both Hezb and the government suffered.
Two days before the arrival of Abdul Saboor Farid to assume his post as the first Prime Minister of the Islamic government, rocket attacks on Kabul killed about 100 people and wounded 300 more.
Hezb described the attack as a retaliatory move in self defense, but the targets hit were residential areas, kilometers away from front line. The attack was an embarrassing development for Farid, who wanted to join the government to serve the people. Let us hope that Prime Minister Farid will be able to put an end to such indiscriminate attacks and is able to persuade his party to abandon the policy of use of force for achieving political aims.
While Farid has joined the government, Mr. Hikmatyar, the leader of Hezb, has decided "to stay outside Kabul. This is a source of worry to people of Afghanistan who want to see all the Mujahideen leaders engaged in a meaningful political process so that peace returns to the country and the Islamic system is consolidated.
With Farid’s entry, the two-month long propaganda campaign against the Islamic government has lost its credibility. Hezb joined the government without the introduction of any major change in the composition of the government upon which it had earlier insisted.
The Islamic government has many shortcomings which need to be corrected, but confrontational policies will do no good. These shortcomings require the participation of all Mujahideen in the government; only their united action can guarantee introduction of the necessary changes. Therefore it would be logical for the leader of Hezb to join the other Mujahideen leaders and work to form a representative government through elections.
The Hezb leader insistence on remainin outside Kabul will not remove the shadow of war hanging over the people. This will give a chance for both armed groups along the roads leading to Kabul and criminal elements within the city to create law and order problem along the highways and in the capital.
The events of the past two months showed that propaganda against the Islamic Government was not able to stop refugees from returning home and foreign countries from recognizing the government It must have become clear that there is no possibility of taking power through military action.
If a conciliatory policy had been adopted from the beginning, the security situation in Kabul would have been better^nd life would have been easier for its population.	-
The step taken by Farid is a good start but there is a need for Hezb’s full commitment to the political process.
Full participation of Hezb and the inclusion of Hezb Wahdat in the government will improve the security situation, which is the main concern of die people.
The Islamic government has a difficult agenda to deal with. It has to provide security for the people of Afghanistan and provide them with the necessary services. Winter is coming and the capital needs ample supplies of food and fuel for several million of its people. Major parts of funds to provide food, fuel and medicine must come from donation by friendly countries and the international organizations. The outside world will help only if roads are safe and security in Kabul and in the countryside has improved.
tne remains ot Mohammad Sardar, Mohammad Gulzareen and Mohammad Amir, Abdul said.
They were religious scholars. Like perhaps hundreds of thousands of other. Afghans, they vanished without a trace following the 1978 revolution.
Their only crime, Abdul says, was opposing the oppression and terror of Moscow's handpicked dictators. The last strongman, Najibullah, was toppled in April by Mujahideen now running the government.
"I came here to mourn my uncles. Other people are coming too, hoping to find some sign of what happened to our families," said the 29-year-old Abdullah, who fought with the Mujahideen against communist rule in Afghanistan.
From -20,000 to 35,000 people in Kabul alone were arrested by the feared KGB-style secret police and never were seen again, said intelligence officials of the new Islamic government's defence ministry. Human rights activists, however, consider that a conservative figure.
Afghans talked in whispers for years about the "polygon", the rock-strewn plain at the foot of the jagged mountains 25 km east of Kabul. Many of those who disappeared are believed to be buried in mass graves on the plain.
A senior commander of Defence Minister Ahmad Shah Masood who identified himself only as Mohammad Es’haq recently led an expedition of Mujahideen to the area.
Armed with a small shovel, the brigade picked a spot and started to dig beneath the U-shaped tank emplacements. About half a meter below the surface they found a skeleton. They continued diggggg, unearthing a second, then a third and fourth.
[ This Associated Press article was published in Khaleej Times on June 21]