AFGHANews Vol 5, No 24, December 15,1989, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Dagarwal Ghulam Jailani
Commander Ghulam Jailani, known as Dagarwal Jailani, was bom 55 years ago in Munara, in Jabulseraj district of Parwan province.
Commander Jailani's father was a military officer working in Kabul and Parwan. "His father wanted his son to become a soldier,” said Jailani's representative in Peshawar. His father had enough money to help his son to go to school. Commander Jailani completed his primary school in Jabulseraj. He earned good marks and his father took him to the city of Kabul.
Jailani was just 12 years old when his father sent him to military school. Jailani completed the school in six years. "It was hard enough to leave your village and your playmates in the country-side and stay in school day and night," Jailani once told his representative. "Teachers were strict and military discipline was the top priority for everyone."
After completing the military college, he became a lecturer in the same school.
Commander Jailani saw how the Soviets infiltrated the Afghan army by providing aims and technical training. The king and President Daud opened the door to the Soviets' influence. Daud decreased contacts with other countries and increased contacts with the Soviet Union. He purchased arms and sent thousands of students to the Soviet Union for training.
Commander Jailani left the army when the communists took power in 1978. He returned to his village and began to work against the regime secretly.	.
Though he was a military officer, organizing a guerrilla force was a difficult job. Irregular warfare was new to him. He went to see Commander Masood, who had started his work in the Panjshir Valley earlier. Masood, as a young guerrilla commander, impressed him. Jailani chose to work under his command. Masood sent him to Jabulseraj to mobilize the people.
After eight months he was arrested by regime forces. The Communists tortured him but released him after two months.
In late 1979, he went to the mountains and became the commander of Jabulseraj district. By that time he had lost eigh members of his 20-man aimed group.
"He always remembers his martyred friends, such as Khwaja Amanullah, Eng. Abdul . Baseer, Mamoor Abdul Hadi, Hamidullah, Abdul Shukoor, Toran Nabi and Zabit Naseer,” said his representative. In two years' time he expanded his forces from 25 to 200 men.
The first operation in which his group participated was in the fall of 1981. The Russians had besieged Jabulseraj. Their aim was to capture the Mujahideen's base and establish their security post there instead. The fighting lasted for ten days. The casualties on both sides were high. The Mujahideen destroyed 10 tanks and jeeps and killed or wounded 460 Russian and regime soldiers . The Mujahideen seized 30 Kalashnikov rifles.Twenty Mujahideen and 45 civilians were martyred.
In 1982 and 1983, Commander Jailani worked hard to organize his forces. They fough the enemy along the Salang highway, at Qala-e-Surkh garrison and the regime's Division No. 2.
His operations in the winter of 1985 and the spring and summer of 1987 were the largest ones. In the operation of September of 1989, carried out by the Supervisory Council, Commander Jailani played a significant role.
He was able to capture many posts in Jabulseraj area. Commander Jailani plays an active role in the Supervisory Council.
Dagarwal Jailani has opened some schools for the children in Jabulseraj. He is respected by his people and Mujahideen. He is married and has many children. His family lives inside Afghanistan.
snort News
Lyon: Aid to continue
A two-day conference of European volunteer agencies helping Afghan refugees ended in Lyon, France, on November 26, after the participants promised to continue their humanitarian work.
All the participants agreed that after the withdrawal of the Soviet troops, their job has became more difficult A lot of people now think that the war in Afghanistan is civil war, and they are not willing to donate money. The participants also showed concern for the safety of aid workers.
Despite the difficulties, they decided to continue their humanitarian efforts. There are five million refugees in Iran and Pakistan. About three million more are displaced inside the country.
Private relief organizations have played a key role in helping needy people inside and outside Afghanistan.
Tailoring workshop for refugee widows
A women's delegation, from UNICEF visited the tailoring workshop of Ummohatul- Momineen girls school in Peshawar on November 26.
In this workshop orphan girls and widows are taught tailoring so that they can earn their living through constructive work.
The UNICEF delegation admired the program which is supporting needy women in exile.
Ummohatul-Mumineen girls' school is run by the Organization of Muslim Sisters, affiliated with Jami'at Islami Afghanistan.
Refugee women pray for Arab scholar
The Organization of Sisters in Islam held a memorial ceremony for the late Abdullah Ezam on November 27.
In addition to Afghan women, a considerable number of Arab anc Pakistani women also participated in the meeting..
Speakers praised the services of Shaikh Abdullah Ezam to Jihad, and prayed for his soul.
Afghan reporter killed in Kandahar
An Afghan reporter and aid worker, Shah Mohammad Bazgar, was killed in an ambush on November 24 when he was going to Kandahar.
In the incident several other people were injured. Bazgar, 40, was a member of CNRS, a French research institute, when the Soviets invaded Afghansitan. He started to travel to Afghanistan to shoot films and photographs.
In France he organized meetings in which he spoke about Afghanistan and showed films and slides.
He was the co-author of La Resistance au Coeur. a book on the war in Afghanistan. Bazgar hailed from Ningarhar province and'was affiliated with Hezb Islami (Khalis).