AFGHANews Vol7, No 4, February 15,1991, page ®
Experience pays off
One year, I was travelling from Balkh to Bamyan and the road was infested with robbers. A young man came with me as my guide. He was strong and broad-shouldered, well-armed and very proud of his bow - It took ten men to string it; arid as for him, no strong man had ever laid him to the ground. However, he had had a sheltered and easy life; he had not travelled or seen the world; he had not heard the beating drums of the military, or seen die flashing swords of die cavalry.
As we woe marching along together, he would kick down ruined walls and root up old trees, boasting of his strength and saying: " Where are the lions and elephants? They date not show themselves while I am here!"
The wonts were hardly out of his mouth, when two black Indian robbers
jumped out from behind a rock to attack us. One was carrying a wooden mallet and the other a club.
I turned to the young man and asked:" Well, what are you waiting for? Now show your strength and send these wretches to their graves!"
But I saw the bow and the arrows fall out of his hands. The boy was shaking and trembling. Not every marksman stands his ground when the enemy attacks. So we had no choice but to drop our belongings 'and our weapons and flee few our lives.
In a difficult situation, use an experienced canny man , who knows what he is doing. A young man may be as strong as an ox, but if he is inexperienced, he will go to pieces in an emergency. A man who has lived through a war knows what to expect in battle, just as an educated man knows what to make of a law-Suit.
Victory comes with hard work
I was crossing the Meccan desert and spent several nights without sleep till I was too exhausted to walk any further. I lay down and rested my head on my arms and told the camel driver. " Keep your hands off me. How should a poor man like me go any further on foot, when even the big male camel has run out of strength. Those who started off well-padded have become thin as rakes. I was already thin when
Earthquake
From Page (1)
The flood washed away dozens of villages and damaged many houses, bridges and irrigation channels. Liberated areas as well as areas controlled by the regime were affected by the flood, which also caused material losses in neighboring Seestan and Baluchistan Province of Iran.
I set off: this hard journey will kill me off."
He shook me and said:" My brother! The Holy Ka’ba lies in front of you, but bandits are all behind you. If you go on now, you will reach your goal. But if you go to sleep, you will surely die. When the camel caravan moves on through the desert, it is tempting to stay asleep under a thorn bush; but it will cost you your life if you do."
.*
failed"” ,
'5.	-
.hen
sjfci 'tm
iii!!
■
m
jb&& linera
V-'Vs*	s	O
AFGHAN
PROVERBS

The right answer to a fool is silence.
Meaning: You will get into trouble if you argue with a fool and therefore silence is golden.
^*1	b
• Julk	..
As long as there are fools in the world, i)o one will be penniless.
Meaning:	Spendthrifts	are
foolish.
Iron cuts iron.
Meanining:	Dimonds	cut
dimond.
^ <jli	JyJ	J)l
First there be place for nail and then for a fist
Meaning: Give him an inch and he will take an ell.