____________________AFGHANews Vol 5, No 2, January 15, 1989, page 7
’Stopping bloodshed' code name for Vorontsov’s attempt to save regime
By Habib Rahman
SOVIET military and diplomatic efforts are aimed at saving the regime after the troops withdrawal. This plan is carried out under the code name of "stopping bloodshed in Afghanistan.”
Soviets favored signing the Geneva accords because they were thinking it will put the regime in a good position. But die developments showed that the regime will face serious problems as soon as the Soviet troops are out of Afghanistan. This worried Kremlin leaders and they appointed Yuri Vorontsov as their Ambassador to Kabul to help in finding a way out of the difficulties.
Vorontsov who is also the First Deputy of Foreign Ministry of U.S.SJR. came to Kabul with a combination of military and political plans to avoid the regime's defeat. He ordered postponement of troops withdrawal and introduced new weapons and even indulged in offensive activities by Soviet troops. The purpose of these measures were to give a morale boost the regime in Kabul. This was necessary for the implementation of the rest of his plan.
The second step was a political purge inside die ruling party in Kabul. Those who opposed his programs of dialogue and power-sharing with the opponents were either removed from the important position in the government or were sent to jail.
The third step was offering a dialogue with the resistance and individuals in exile. The central issues proposed by the Soviets in the talks with the Mujahideen were observation of a ceasefire and the beginning of dialogue between the1 Mujahideen and the regime.
In the talks the Soviet envoy used the language of threat and promise simultaneously. He threatened the Mujahideen against rejection of ceasefire and told them that all the responsibility of the future bloodshed will rest on their shoulders. He also talked of regime's readiness to continue fighting for 100 years., He said to the Mujahideen that the regime will be supported by his country and new weapons will be given to it.
Vorontsov tried hard to emphasize the durability of the regime. His argument was based on the assumption that the regime had a strong army and enjoyed the support of a major section of the Afghan society.
During the discussions, in Taif and Islamabad, he refused to give assurance to the Mujahideen that their troops will withdraw by February 15. He connected the troops withdrawal with progress in the direction of what he termed it "Infra Afghan dialogue."
The Soviet envoy also tried to wedge gap between the Mujahideen and their supporters. He talked about assurances that Iran, Pakistan and Saudi leaders have assured him to support his efforts for a peaceful settlement
He wanted to impress the Mujahideen delegation by promising economic aid for Afghanistan. He repeatedly referred to $600 million promised to the UN for reconstruction of Afghanistan. He tried to say that Soviet Union was a friend of Afghanistan (!) and will be a friend in the future. He also said that the Soviet Union did not consider the Mujahideen enemy.
Soviet soldiers call the Mujahideen Dushman, Persian translation of the word enemy, which has became part of their language. The word Dushman referred to the Mujahideen can be found in the Soviet publications too.
Vorontsov was trying to give himself the position of a neutral mediator but was told openly that he was representing a principal side in the conflict.
In talking with different Afghan groups he has used a different language. There is not enough information about what he said to the; ex-king, but to the Iran-based parties he offered internal autonomy for Hazarajat areas in exchange for power-sharing with the communist regime in Kabul.
Hazarajat is the central part of Afghanistan where Shia parties based in Iran have influence.
He was told by the Mujahideen leader that they wanted the whole Afghanistan and not a slice of it.
Vorontsov who is considered to be an able diplomat tried to use his abilities to divide the resistance but failed very badly.
Vorontsov now and then referred to PDPA and other political and religious groups. What he has jn mind and does not find it proper to reveal at the moment, is a number of parties created by the regime under different names.
The strong point of the Mujahideen is the popularity of their cause. Even the Soviets say that it is
up to Afghans to decide the type of government Saying this and then bargaining about inclusion of the communist regime in the future political system is a contradictory approach.
The Mujahideen spoke to the Soviets reasonably and firmly. While they showed their desire for peaceful ways of transfer of power, they did not compromise on the issue of disqualification of the communist regime to form the future political life of Afghans.
To Vorontsov it was made clear that the regime which was a product of the Soviet invasion must go with the Soviet troops. However, the resistance will deal with its members with Islamic tolerance and it is not in favor of further bloodshed.The members of the regime will be treated justly.
The Mujahideen told the Soviets that they are in favor of a new chapter in the relation between the Soviet Union and Afghanistan. The future relations will depend on the present behavior of the Soviet leadership and will be based on mutual respect and noninterference in the affairs of each other. It is up to the Soviets to choose between having good relations with a neighboring country and supporting the communist regime.
Will the Soviets come to a compromising position? From the talks it did not seem so. They want the regime to be part of the future political system which is not acceptable to the Resistance. They may change the name of the party or may sacrifice some figures but so far they seem firm on the survival of the regime. To them the survival of the regime is a victory for their Afghan policy and a guarantee of the preservation of the Soviet interests in Afghanistan.
EEC calls for timely troops pullout
European Economic Community has called on the Soviets to abide by the Geneva accords and pull out. its troop till February 15.
The 12 member E.E.C statement was issued in Athens on the occasion of the 9th anniversary of the Soviet invasion in Afghanistan. The statement has called the talks between the Mujahideen and the Soviets "particularly encouraging" to find a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan.