AFGHANews Vol 7, No 16, August 15,1991, page
i rw/ \ 5 n ? > \	.
I	JS-C,’?	f	fi	l-i	:	^
I	%>-X	f	-,. V	5 '	;	/ > \
^p^.V>w--Xv.%->.\\vXvv-iv .v-.v.-.‘.‘<v«‘«v‘.'.v.-.‘«vv,v'.\-.	•	•

vvs
C -A, s^>	s-.	r	.-
Jami’at condemns violence against foreign aidworkers
Attacks on international relief organizations in the liberated areas of Afghanistan and political kidnappings are negative developments which will hurt Jehad and decrease international support for the Mujahideen.
Recently, some relief organizations helping people in southwest Afghanistan were attacked and some of their workers were detained in an area controlled by the Mujahideen.
An Afghan journalist has been abducted in Peshawar by some unknown people.
One cannot say with certainty that there is a political motive behind each of these incidents but if these things are done to achieve political gains, the people behind these crimes hurt the Afghan cause. Jehad was, and still is, very popular all over the world. Not only governments, but ordinary people all over the world supported and sympathized with the Mujahideen and wished them victory.
Violence against humanitarian organizations undermines not only the relief work for the needy Afghans, but causes a loss of world-wide sympathy for our just struggle.
Jehad has entered into a sensitive phase. Changes in the Soviet Union and successful propaganda campaign launched by the Kabul regime have raised serious questions in the minds of the Jehad's supporters about the logic of continuing support for the Mujahideen. A lot of positive work is necessary to keep international support on our side. If any group, for political or financial reasons, attacks aid organizations and abducts their workers, it is acting against the interest of Mujahideen. The enemy benefits from such irresponsible behavior.
Those who indulge in these actions violate Islamic law and the Afghan code of conduct. The relief organizations working in the liberated area enter Afghanistan with the permission of one or several Mujahideen parties. They are entitled to the protection of all Mujahideen. Any violence committed against them undermines the agreement signed between them and one or several Mujahideen groups.
Such acts of violence also violate Afghan hospitality. Afghans are famous for honoring guests and protecting those in need of assistance. These qualities have earned than respect all over the world. It is a crime to damaged the reputation of the Afghan people for short-sighted political and economic ends.
Jami'at has always appreciated the work of relief organizations in Afghanistan. They have done good service to our cause by helping needy people and taking the news of the enemy's atrocities to the world.
Abduction of individuals for political reasons is also contemptible. Jami'at demands the immediate release of Abdur Rahim Chenzai, an aged Afghan journalist who was abducted in Peshawar earlier this summer.
Jami'at hopes that all Mujahideen parties will work together to prevent acts of violence against aid organizations and individuals. These actions harm all the Mujahideen. It is the collective responsibility of all Mujahideen to fight against such actions which give Afghans a bad name, isolate die Mujahideen and help our enemies— the Soviets and the Kabul regime.
Border talks are held in Badakhshan
A three-member delegation of the Mujahideen met with a Soviet delegation in Eshkashim District, Badakhshan Province, to discuss security issues along the common border after the liberation of the area by the Mujahideen, Ahmad Shah Masood reported.
When the Mujahideen captured Zebak, Wakhan, Eshkashim and Sheghnan Districts, situated along the Soviet border, Soviet border officers approached the Mujahideen to discuss the security problems along the border with the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen accepted the offer and the first round of talks took place in the middle of a bridge over the Oxus River at Eshkashim.
The two sides agreed that they would not interfere in each other's affairs.
The Soviet side wanted the Mujahideen to return to them any Soviet citizen who flees to Afghanistan. The Mujahideen told the Soviets that such a decision could only be made by their leaders. The Mujahideen will convey their position on this issue to the Soviets after receiving instructions from the Jami'at leader.
The Mujahideen demanded the return of the heavy and light weapons taken by regime troops to the Soviet Union after their defeat in Eshkashim. The Soviet side postponed their answer to this demand.
The two sides discussed ways o' contacting each other in the case of border violations. Soviets proposed extension of a telephone line. The Mujahideen proposed raising a white flag and holding of meeting on the bridge. The two sides could not agree on a procedure.
The Mujahideen asked the Soviets to withdraw their border guards baset on Afghan soil rind to re-establish their posts on the other side of the river. The Soviets accepted this demand and withdrew die guards. The middle of Eshkashim bridge will mark the border between the two countries.
Ahmad Shah Masood explainer that die talks had taken place between the local border officials of the two sides, and woe stricdy confined to to security problems along the border. He rejected die report by a Pakistani newspaper claiming that he himself had met with the Soviets.