Vol 6, No 24	December	15,1990
The Afghan Interim Government launched the elections program on December 2, by sendirig 138 supervisory teams to 20 provinces in Afghanistan.
The people of each district elect 10 members for the Loya Jirga (Grand Assembly) which will decide the shape of the future government in Afghanistan. There are 216 districts in Afghanistan. In addition to the elected member by each district, each political party will send 10 representatives to the Jirga. Thirty five seats are reserved to old technocrats, now living in exile, and 20 seats are set aside for "good Muslims" coming from the areas controlled by the regime.
Except for Hazb-i-Wahday party which is based in Tehran, all other parities within and outside the AIG have participated in the election. No elections will be held in areas under control of the regime.
The election procedure is flexible to suit abnormal situation in Afghanistan. The election process should be completed by March 1991. The program might face may practical problem because of the war situation in the country.
The Kabul regime has called the elections a show. If elections is com pleted. successfully, despite its shortcoming, it can be a positive step for the Mujahideen. Only time will tell how successful the program will be.
UN appoints Sevan new Afghan aid coordinator
Prince Sadruddin, the UN Coordinator for humanitarian assistance for Afghanistan, resigned on December 7. He will be replaced by Benon Sevan, the UN Secretary General's personal envoy to Afghanistan.
Sadruddin was appointed to the job in 1988. His main objective was to help in the reconstruction of Afghanistan and rehabilitation of refugees. The situation in Afghanistan did not return to normal as he had expected and he did not receive enough funds to finance his projects.
Sadruddin developed sour relations with the Mujahideen. They accused him for his pro-regime attitudes. His harsh remarks about the Mujahideen armed struggle offended the Resistance. When the news of his replacement was broken one of the Mujahideen leaders said he did not regret his departure.
Sadruddin had assume the coordinator's job for his own political ambitions. In 1981, he was a candidate for the post of General Secretary, but his nomination was vetoed by the USSR. In his job as the coordinator of UN assistance for Afghanistan, he did some publicity for the Soviet Union for that country’s promise of aid. His close relations with Kabul also could be interpreted as a move to please the Soviets.
Prince Sadruddin enjoyed personnel relations with the American
Geneva gives Najib new name
The war in Afghanistan is the conflict between Islam and communism. The Mujahideen defended Islam while the PDPA tried to impose communism cm the people.
Although the final victory of the Mujahideen has not materialized, the victory of Islam is certain. Th evolution of Najib's name is clear proof of the victory of Islam. At one stage, he \yas called comrade Najib. Later he started to be called Najibullah. Allah (God) was added to his name to appeal to religious people.
During Najib's mysterious trip to Geneva a double Islamic prefix was added to his name. The final version: Sayyed Mohammad Najibullah. If Najib survives for a few more months he might add other religious prefixes like Haji, Sufi, Maulavi, etc., to deceive a few people for a few more days.
President George Bush. This spared him from American criticism of what he did in Afghanistan. American officials in private criticized Sadruddin’s way of doing things, but not in public. Sadruddin's other weak point was his connection with the Ismailia community in Afghanistan who form a strong militia group in the North. The Mujahideen say most of the UN assistance distributed in the government-controlled cities has gone to these militias. Sadruddin is originally from Iran and his family has served as the spiritual leader of the Ismailia sect
The new coordinator will assume his job from January 1st Sevan, 53, and a Cyprus national, replaced Cordovez as the UN Secretary General's personnel envoy after the Soviet troops left Afghanistan.
The office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees has reduced its 1991 budget for the Afghan refugees in Pakistan by 20 percent.
Money required for support of more than three million refugees in Pakistan was $40.4 million, but UNHCR will spend only $32.4 million. The reason for this reduction is said to be global reduction of donations for the refugees.
It is worth mentioning that even the rations given to the refugees before the cut was not enough and this reduction will cause tremendous problems for them.
UNHCR started a programme of repatriation of refugees last summer but few refugees left because conditions for their return was not right
Afghan leaders have expressed worry lest the reduction of assistance should not be a use as weapon against the refugees to force their return to Afghanistan and accept a political solution they do not want.
The Mujahideen expect friendly countries to continue their support for the refugees until conditions are condu cive for their voluntary return.