		 AFGHANews Vol5, No 18& 19, October 1,1989, page®	
Mujahideen have abilit Kabul regime: e©mi The following is the text parts of Afghanistan were also of Commander Masood's in- Kbenue<L. terview with a group of Q. why ^ yOU not attack Kabul western journalists. He and Salang during the Jalalabad talked to the journalists in offensive? Taloqan,the provincial capi- As for attacking Kabul, we talofTakhar, on August 18: facing ^lemsJJut, contrary to ° the propaganda launched against us. we n Jr , _ . .. attacked the enemy in Salang. Salang Q. After the Soviet troop mth- ^ to flghdng ^ trawl, how do you justify continuation From the start of the Jalalabad of the war campaign the road was closed for the A. Our people had nsen against encmy military convoys for two the communist regime before the months. Due the people's request, we Soviet invasion. The uprising was oniy allowed convoys of food and fuel against the communists rule. They (the |q Salang. Those who accuse us communists) are still in power, there- ^ those who led die war, but failed and fore the struggle continues. now want justify their failure by accus-Q. After the Soviet troop with- ^ council. drawal, can we call the fighting in Nobody informed us about that Afghanistan civil war? war. We captured more than 500 sol-A. This is not a civil war. The dJers, 300 of whom are still in Panjshir communists came to power with the prison. We seized 700 weapons, help of the Soviets. People rose against Q.Was the Jalalabad campaign them. This war is the continuation of premature? the liberation war. A. There are different reasons for Q. In February, when the Soviets the failure of the Jalalabad campaign. were pulling out their troops, did you First, the attack was launched at a time believe the regime would fall within when most of the country was covered weeks? with snow. There was no possibility A. No. The Council knew that the for most of die fronts to launch attacks, war might continue for one year or Second, other fronts woe not contacted more. A lot of people did not share our for help. The Council is one of the ma-view and thought that the regime would jor fronts which was not consulted. We fall quickly. We were saying that the heard the news of the attack on the strength of the regime was not a key BBC. When we attacked the enemy in factor. The Mujahideen needed time to Salang to help the Mujahideen in prepare for major offensives. Jalalabad, it was an expression of soli-Q. Since our meeting last year, darky towards our brothers on the what have been the achievements of the Jalalabad front Mujahideen? Q. How is the morale of the re-A. Since the Soviets started to gime troops? withdraw their troops, we have liberated A. Despite immense propaganda vast areas of the control of the Kabul by the regime, especially after the regime, and important regime garrisons Jalalabad campaign, the Kabul regime have been captured. Jurm district and could not raise the morale of its troops. Baharak sub-district were freed. Keshm Regime soldiers are conscripts who do garrison was captured. Andarab, not want to fight. On the other hand, Panjshir and Gulbahar were liberated, the enemy army is divided. There are Districts of Khaja Ghar was freed, problems between Khalqis and Dasht-i-Archi, Imam Sahib, Goortaipa Parch amis, Pushtoons and Tajiks. The and Qala-i-Zal were brought under the army is complaining about low-quality control of the Mujahideen. In Mazar, food and training. There are many prob-Shadian and Marmol were liberated. lems of this nature. All these areas are situated around Q. Can the Mujahideen tapture the cities. Taloqan, Khanabad and Kabul militarily? Kunduz cities were liberated. Kunduz A. God willing, the Mujahideen was recaptured by the enemy because of will achieve eye-catching victories dur-heavy bombardments and lack of a unit- ing the current year. Regarding the fall ed command among the Mujahideen. of Kabul this year, 1 can't say anything. Likewise many regions in other it depends on a lot of factors which can-	y to defeat -.Masood not be predicted. Q. Has the time for the fall of the Kabul regime passed? Aren't the leaders arguing among themselves rather than fighting the regime? A. I believe that the Kabul regime will fall, God willing. A nation has risen. A minority want to rule with the power of guns. A handful of people cannot rule with the help of the Soviet weapons. Leaders in Peshawar and the Interim Government do not think much about overthrowing the regime. They spend most of their time on issues not relevant to the war. Q. What lessons have the Mujahideen learned from the previous year? , A, The need for unity and reorganization of the Mujahideen forces. One cannot fight the regime with the previous organizational structure. Q. IfNajib steps down from power, are you ready to negotiate a deal? A. To us Babrak, Amin and Najib are not an issue. As long as the communists are in power we will not negotiate. Q. What do you hope to achieve in the future? A. During the current year we hope to liberate some cities. We want to deprive the regime of the publicity bonus it gained because of the Jalalabad campaign. We want prove that the Mujahideen have the upper hand on the battlefield and that the fall of the regime is inevitable. Q. How is your army organized? A. Central and local army units, formed of battalions which can operate independently. Each battalion is composed of 5 companies: three infantry, one heavy-weapons and one logistics (company). We also have heavy-weapons battalions. Q. What is the strength of your army? A, 9000 men. Q. Are you ready to attack major cities? A. Yes, we are ready. But we will apply a new tactic in our attacks. After the Jalalabad campaign we discussed the issue in three meetings of Jami'at commanders and have evolved a new strategy . It will not be revealed until it is put into practice. Q. Do you think the war will be long?