AFGHAN HE US UOL.Itl,  NO. 23,  VI2/t96?,PRGf
    several limes . He also claimed that he was religious and his mother had taught him verses of the Quran, but he did not show any interest in prayer Then he stole the pistol of Abdul Saboor (a Mujahideen commander)
    After the pistol was found with him in a search. Nooruilah was put in prison In order to learn more about him Kiramuddin, the Mujahideen's Prosecutor, was also "imprisoned", Kiramuddin introduced himself to Noorullah as an officer of the puppet army captured by Mujahideen Slowly Kiramuddin earned "Noorullahs trust and friendship" Finally Noorullah disclosed his true identity to Kiramuddin and encouraged him to escape to the nearby Russian garrison He even promised Kiramuddin could marry his sister who was a beautiful movie star . Thus, his true identity and his mission was discovered.
    According to eyewitnesses after Noorullah found out that he was fooled by Mujahideen ( into giving up his secrets, he seemed extremely sad most of the time. Sometimes he ‘ would draw a cross on his hand in red and write his sister s name, Diana, underneath it.' At other times he would repeat by himself what some KGB officers had told him "your chances of success in this mission is about 40 per cent.' At some stage he tried to escape and reached close to the DRA Garrison in the valley when the Mujahideen chasing him fired on him and he was killed
                                       SUPPORT FOR AFGHANS
    "Ve do everything we can to help the Afghan nation", said Rafsanjani.
    Hashcmt Rafsanjani. the speaker of Iran National Assembly talking to an Italian paper said that the Islamic Republic of Iran would do everything possible to help the Afghan Muslim nation
    He said that the Afghans were oppressed The Soviet Union, a super power, and a puppet of the Marxist regime engaged in a cruel war against the people. They till people and
    destroy villages and towns
    In response to a question that help to Afghans could be in the form of military aid. he said that they knew no limit. "We have supported Afghans and paid the price ", said Rafsanjani The reporter asked what was the price?
    Rafsanjani answered that the Soviets had clearly said' to them if they stopped supporting the Afghan people the Soviets would stop sending arms to Iraq But we will not forget out responsibility towards Afghanistan
                                AFGHAN’S DEMONSTRATION IN DELHI
    More than ona hundred Afghan refugees were arrested by the Indian police when they staged a demonstration to protest against the Soviet occupation of their country at the eve of Soviet Prime Minister's visit to India. They held a meeting on October 22 in front of the UN building and set on fire the Soviet flag. When they tried to march, the Indian police intervened and arrested more than one bundl ed of them
    There is a large Afghan community in India and most Afghans living there are refugees Afghans are angry at the pro-Soviet policy of Rajiv's government in regard
    to the Afghanistan issue.
                                                  ♦ * # # •
    NEITHER AFGHANS SiOR THE PEACE-LOUIHG PEOPLE OF THE UORLB U!LL BE OEOEIUEB BV THE            IHTRODUCTSOM OF THE           SQUIET
                 SP0HSS8EB constitution*. arbed struggle uill cohtihue uhtil
                 RIL THE SOUSE! TROOPS HOME LEFT AFGHAN I STfiH AND THE PEOPLE
                 OF AFGHANS STAR ARE GRANTED THE RIGHT TO OETERBINE THEIR
    FUTURE,