Voi 4, No 17	September	1,1988
Zia killed in air crash
Mines threaten refugees' return
PRESIDENT Zia-ul-Haa was killed In an air incident when the plane carrying him and other senior off icers crashed in the afternoon of August the l?th in the East of Pakistan.
Gftul&m Ishaq Khan, the Chairman of the senate assumed the responsibility of presidential office as provided for in the constitution.
Zia s death shocked the Pakistani people, Afghan refugees and the Mujahideen. In this tragic incident 29 others including some high-ranking army officers and the US Ambassador were also killed.
Zia was laid to rest with full military honours on the lawn of Faisal Mosque in Islamabad. His funeral ceremoney was attended by several heads of states. Hundreds of thousands of Pakistanis participated in the funeral in respect of the departed soul.
The Mujahideen leaders and a large number of prominent refugee figures attended the funeral ceremony. Zla's sudden death was shocking for the Afghan refugees living in Pakistan. On Friday the 19th of August, the Supreme Council of the Mujahideen Alliance met to discuss the situation. The meeting passed a resolution paying full tributes to the services of the late President
Zia-ul-Hsw for the cause of jehad in Afghanistan.
In this meeting it was decided that the big Mosque of Puli-Rheshti in the center of Kabul would be renamed as the Zia-ul-Haq Mosque after the liberation.
Prof. Rabbsak leader of Jami&t Salami in his condolence message to Ghuiam Is haa Khanf the President of Pakistan, has said that the Muslim world has been deprived of a kind and courageous leader.
The cause of the accident has not been identified yet but the authorities suspect an act of sabotage. If sabotage is identified as the cause of the incident, the involvement of foreign countries especially the puppet regime and the Soviets can not be ruled out.
President Zla-ui-Haq took power in Pakistan ten years ago. During his rule Pakistan achieved an important position in the world community by supporting the struggle of Afghans for the liberation of their country,
No doubt President Zia’s personal comittment to the cause of jehad was a driving force behind this policy of the government of Pakistan.
The new government has said that there will not be any change in the foreign policy of Pakistan and support for the Mujahideen cause will continue.
A recent survey by the ILS State Department says millions of mines are left behind as the Soviets are leaving the country and this could pose a major threat to returning Afghan
refugees.
"Our estimate is that there are between 10 end 30 million mines in Afghanistan/ Spokesman Charles Redman said at an August ne-ws briefing.
Mines are the main obstacle in the ^ay of returning refugees. The Soviets and their puppets have mined villages, irrigation channels, fields and pastures. Without an extensive mine-clearing operation it would be very dangerous for the returning refugees and their livestock.
The major problem in the wf of a
mine-clearing operation is the lack of data about minefields and the absence of reliable mine detecting equipments.
Western countries can help in providing mine-cl^rmg equipments and technical advice.