AFGHANews Vol 5, No 8, April 15, 1989, page
The UN Chief Coordinator	of
Humanitarian Assistance to Afghanistan has said that the Soviets will help to clear mines in Afghanistan.
Prince Sadrutldin said that the Soviets had promised to provide dummy mines for training programs of Afghan refugees.
Minea are a major obstacle to reconstruction in Afghanistan and the repatriation of more than five million refugees.
Experts believe that without maps of minefields the program will not be successful.
The Soviets have refused to give maps of the minefields they have created in Afghanistan.
The UN has started training Afghan refugees how todefuse mines. The dummy mines provided by the Soviets may help the program but without maps the minefields can not be cleared effectively.
Malaysia recognizes Mujahideen government
Malaysia became the fourth country to recognize the interim government of the Mujahideen.
Saudi Arabia, Sudan and Bahrain had already recognized the government set up by the Mujahideen.
Thousands leave Kabul
Thousands of Kabul residents, fear ing an imminent offensive by Mujahideen, have left the capital for die safety of provincial towns and neigh bouring countries, diplomats said on Monday.
At least 9,000 people had sold their belongings and had left the city in the past three days, they added.
Government spokesman Mohammad Amani described the figure as highly exaggerated, saying it was usual for Kabul residents to leave for other provinces at this time of the year to help their relatives cultivate land.
"Many people in Kabul have land and they head north in springtime to take up farming," Amani said.
Kamaluddin seeks help for reconstruction of Panjshir
The head of the Reconstruction Committee of the Panjshir seeks the help of aid organizations in reconstruction of the valley.
Engineer Kamaluddin, 36, said that the Reconstruction Committee of Panjshir was founded last summer after the Soviets left the valley .The purpose of establishing the committee was to rebuild the valley, which is totally destroyed.
He said that his committee had a big task in front of it. In a short period of time it has succeeded in recruiting technical cadres and in improving the condition of Panjshir road. It was also able to build two bridges, to repair two buildings to be used as hospitals, to dig two tunnels as bomb shelters and to construct six kilometers of new road. It has helped the local population to repair some irrigation channels.
Most important of all, the committee has completed the survey of a number of projects to start when funds are available, Kamaluddin said.
He said his committee has laid the foundation of reconstruction work in the valley with the help of his 54 staff, 11 of whom are engineers.
Kamaluddin joined the Islamic movement in high school. He graduated from the faculty of Polytechnic at Kabul University as a civil engineer and worked for a short while in the field. He joined Masood in 1980 and helped him in different jobs.
In 1983 he was appointed the head of the Financial Committee of Masood's organization. He did the job successfully and laid the foundation of accounting work for that committee. He was also in charge of aid distribution among internal refugees, which
brought him in contact with foreign aid organizations helping war-affected Afghans inside the country.
Last summer Kamaluddin was appointed head of the Reconstruction Committee of the valley and he negotiated with a UN survey team who had gone to the North.
Asked about his talks with the UN team, Kamaluddin said that he had discussed reconstruction of the valley with them. They promised to help the local population by sending fertilizer and medicine.
A convoy of 17 trucks under the UN flag was sent from Kabul to the valley but the convoy was ambushed by Mujahideen from Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar group) and the supplies woe taken, Kamaluddin said.
About his future plans, he said that everything depended on the availability of funds. "We have trained manpower and have laid the ground for reconstruction work," he said.
Kamaluddin saitL that he needs money, equipment and technical assistance to do his job. This was the reason for his trip to Peshawar, he said.
Kamaluddin said that he intends to construct the buildings for 32 large mosques, four high schools, four secondary schools, 20 primary schools, two hospitals and 5 health centers.
He also wants to build two bridges, 9 culverts, 30 footbridges and to improve the condition of the road.
Building of two stretches of road about 30 Kilometers long are also in his priority list.
Kamaluddin said that due to the physical structure of the valley and its dependence on supplies of food and building material from outside, build-
Tumtopage (7)
Swedes continue to support Afghans
The annual meeting of the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan, held in Stockholm on March 18, decided to continue its humanitarian assistance to the war-affected Afghans even after the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan.
The meeting, was held to discuss the future work of the committee.
The meeting declared that the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan was a great victory far the
Mujahideen and the Afghan people, bu t that the war of liberation would continue until the Soviet puppets in Kabul are defeated.
The Swedish Committee will launch an extensive fund-raising campaign in Sweden to support the Afghan people.
The meeting elected Jan Stolpe, the former vice-chairman of the Committee, to be Chairman.