flFGHRH HEUS           HO.  3,  T 73/1908,  PfiGE 9
 & Some soy there will be a civil war after the Soviet withdrawal?
 A. I can not talk about all over the country, but I aa very certain that in the South-Western front which contains about 9 provinces, there will be no place for civil war. After all we have worked for ten years to mobilize the people.
                           IN COMMEMORRTfON Of THE THIRD OF HOOT (FEBRUBRV 21)
 The 3rd of Hoot (February 21 > is a historical day in the course of the just Jehad of the Afghan Muslim people. It is the day when a nation's love for freedom manifested itself. It is the day when the people of Kabul poured into the streets and astonished the whole world. It is the day when Russians1 miscalculations and false dreams that no one would move against their wishes in Afghanistan proved totally wrong.
 The uprising of the 3rd of Hoot against the Russian invaders and their puppet regime in the heart of Afghanistan resembled a great explosion which trembled the enemy and demonstrated to the world that the Afghan Muslim people welcome martyrdom but abhor servitude.
 Eight years ago, the residents of Kabul used an interesting tactic against the foreign invaders, a tactic which will be memorable in the history of the heroic struggles of the Afghan Mujahid nation. Three months after the mad invasion or the Red Army on Afghanistan, the people of Kabul      started climbing to the roof-tops  of their
 houses and shouting “Allahu Akbar® (God is the Greatest) at night, while they engaged in their routines during the day. By this act, they wanted to awaken the sleepy, to give consciousness to the ignorant, and to warn the enemy. The cries of "Allafcu Akbar" reached their culmination at the night before Hoot 3,1358 (February 21, 198b). The next day, the residents of Kabul, young and old, man and woman poured into the streets all over the city to condemn the presence of foreign troops in their sacred land.
 Except for a small number of the demonstrators who were armed with sticks and stones, the rest were all     empty handed. How  did the
 Russians, who claim to be the champions of freedom and humanism, react to this demonstration of love for freedom and human rights?
 The Russians and their puppets poured bullets and bombs on the innocent defenseless people from helicopters and by their troops on the ground. A large      number of people were martyred and a  large
 number were captured   and sent to jail. Thus, the streets of Kabul
 were once again painted red with the blood of innocent Afghan Muslims.
 Each and every Afghan Muslim cherishes the memory of the Kabul residents’ heroism. They continue their struggle for achieving the ideals of the martyrs of the third of Hoot, namely "Freedom and an Islamic Government11. Each year, on February £1, the sacrifices of the martyrs of the third of Hoot are celebrated and the barbarism of the Russians and their agents is condemned.
                                         PROF. MRJROH MURDERED
 Prof. Bahauddin Majroh, a renowned Afghan scholar and a long-time active supporter of Jihad in Afghanistan, was murdered on the door step of Ids house in Peshawar on February 11,1988. The barbaric