RFGHRH HEMS UCL.III, HO,19, 1/10/ 1907 F3GE 4
                                            NANGARHAR PROVINCE
 1/9/87: In an operation on Nangarhar Airport and city. Mujahideen killed 15 soldiers and officers and wounded 18 others. A tank was also destroyed in the operation. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
                                INTERVIEW WITH AHMAD SHAH MASOQD
                                                    (Part II!)
 Following is the last part of an interview with Ahmad Shah Masood, the famous Commander of Mujahideen in the North. He was interviewed by Abdul Hafiz, a member of the Political Office of J.I .A in Worsaj sub-district of Takhar province on July 21.1987. Part 1 of the interview was on the war situation and part II on the political solution ot the Afghanistan isrue.
 Q I would like to hear something about the achievements of the Supervisory Council of the North (SCN) from you who are the head of the Council.
 A. The first achievement of the SCN has been the elimination of internal divisions and differences and the creation of unity among Jamial Mujahideen. In th3 past there was no cooperation and coordination in the activities of Jamiat members in different provinces. Sometimes, even some small disputes would arise. As a first step, the SCN eliminated this state of affairs by the creation of a united cecter.The establishment of such a center for five provinces is not a small task.
 The second step has been to organize various regions according to certain rules and principles. Fron our point of view, there are two types of regions: (1) mountainous regions favorable for bases, and (2) flat areas. The SCN was able to organize well its mountainous regions all the way from Badakhshan to the North of Kabul and Paghman in a relatively short time. Again the fact that the SCN has been able U) establish safe and strong base-? in these sensitive mountainous regions is a great achievement.
 As a third step, freu a political point of view, the SCN was able to ec'nblirh regional unions among different Mujalideen organizations (except for Hezb.Iolami in some cases) in Kundvz, Tekhvi- and B&gMon. This will allow Muj&hilaon forces to face the enemy together ad to undertake joint operations. This is unprecedented. Moreover, the SCN fans pkyed a role in settling the differences among other Mujahideen Organizations. VI' ’rever there is some problem, representatives of the SC.J vi!l solve it and prevent inlarnrl dashes.
 From a military point of view, r*s I indicate earlier, our various bases are completely ready for defence against Rusriaa attacks.. That was not so in fbl past. More importantly, not only each bare vili defend itself individually, but other tases will launch simultane us attacks. This shows centralisation and coordination in the war.
 Another achievement of the SCN has been the conquest of the three main enemy garrisons in less ♦ban a year. First the Ferkhar garrison was captured and the area
 liberated, then t j Nehrin Garnron, and recently the Kalafgan Garrison.
 Again in military field, the SCN succeeded in training a cadre for fu _\ug an Islamic Army in the ft ur \ Members of this cadre are generally highly ed"= *9d, have good characters, have received higher military trainings, and have participated in the armed Jehad in t?:-i past seven'i years. Such individuals are gathered in Central Units and are trained as future commanders and officers so that they could play a basic role in the establishment of an Islamic Army.
 From an economic point of view, the SCN provided economic assistance to the people last year when we had a drought. It also provided loans to the farmers so that they could cultivate their lands. It also provided help to internal refugees.