RFGHPM tEWS VCC.III, HO. 12,       19CT7 PfiGE  3
                                               PAKTIA PROVINCE
 3/6/1987. Mujahideen from Jami‘at shot dovn an enemy jet in jaji front. On the same day the enemy launched a ground attack against the positions of the Mujahideen but faced the resistance by the Mujahideen from three parties of Jami’at, Ittehad (Prof. Sayyaf) and Hezb and retreated after suffering casualties. It should be mentioned that Soviet-DRA forces had launched an offensive against the Mujahideen in the area vhich failed to achieve any of its aims. Exchange of heavy veapons fire between the tvo sides continues.
                                               PARWAN PROVINCE
 16/5/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at in Bagram district killed three communists by firing 107 mm rockets into their positions.
 18/5/1987. An enemy truck, bound to the famous Bagram Air Base, vas ambuhsed by the Mujahideen and set on fire. The report is silent about the casualties of tvo sides.
                                 AFGHANISTAN IN FREE POLISH PRESS
                     [THIS ARTICLE HAVE BEEN TAKEN FROM THE "VOICE OF SOLIDARITY" NOVEMBER 1986 ISSUE)
 According to a former Afghan student vho lived in Kiev in 1983, three Afghans vere murdered during-the course of the year. The student had found the local people hostile to Afghans, vho vere kept apart, life vas harder in the USSR for them and the authorities had covered up the murders.
 Tvo Soviet officials in Kabul have been executed for being mediators in passing gold to guerrillas through Afghan merchants.
 Slava Denisov, an archaeologist from Dushanbe, vas arrested for collecting signatures against the var in Afghanistan. He vas transferred to the KGB prison in Moscov, pronounced insane and sentenced to a special psychiatric hospital.
 Procurator Chistyakov said at a lecture in September 1985 at the house of political education, CPSU Moscov Committee, that 15,000 Soviet troops die each year in Afghani sten.
 The notebook of a Russian soldier,Alexander Popov, born in 1966, vas found on his dead body in December 1984, in Afghanistan. It contained poems, notes and dravings, reflecting the desolation, despair and hardship in Afghanistan. Soldiers are forbidden to talk about the real situation. As in often the case, Popov’s vritings reveal his strong commitment to religion.
 A cultural vorker from Moscov described hov a friend in Afghanistan told him that, "it is not uncommon to shoot the most hated officers in the back during operations..." Central Asians are still sent to Afghanistan, but are divided betveen units because previous experience has shovn that many defect to the Mujahideen: "Hovodays, central Asian soldiers are placed in predominantly Russian or Ukrainian units and used as cooks and drivers" Soviet soldiers perform best against vomen and children. Vhen they encounter the guerrillas they retreat.
                           JAMIA T LEADER VISITED THE FIGHTING FRONT
 On June 2nd. Jami’at leader. Prof. B. Rabbani left Peshavar for a four day visit to the Jaji front vhere the enemy had launched an offensive During his visit. Mujahideen
 from Jami'at shot dovn one enemy jet.
 According to a foreign journalist after visiting the area. Mujahideen have full control over the situation and Soviets can not come out of their fortress to engage the