Vol 8, No 5
March 1,1992
UN wheat
feeds Kabul
soldiers
The Kabul regime has refused to release the UN wheat stored in the regime’s silo to be distributed among the needy people in Kabul, an informed source reported.
According to the source, UN had stored large quantities of wheat in the regime's silo in Kabul. Some of the wheat was intended to feed pregnant women, children and old people, considered vulnerable groups, during the harsh winter of Kabul.
When the UN officials demanded the release of stored wheat, regime refused to release wheat on the ground that it was saved for priority purposes -to feed the security forces of the regime.
The incident proves a point raised by the Mujahideen that the Kabul regime would use UN material assistance for military and political purposes.
Fourth Shia conference
The Fourth Conference of the Afghan Shia Community has ended in Teheran. The conference was organized jointly by the Afghan Affairs office of the spiritual leader of Iran, and the Afghan section of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The conference supported the UN five-point plan for solution of the Afghan problem. Participants of the conference showed readiness to take part in the UN sponsored gathering but they made it clear that they will not talk to the representa tive of the Kabul regime.
Speaking in one of the sessions of the conference, Prof. Rabbani emphasized the need for joint action of all the Mujahideen groups and warned against divisions on ethnic and religious lines.
Mujahideen, Russians discuss Moscow deal implementation
The joint commission of the Mujahideen and Russians met for the first time on February 13 in Islamabad to discussed the implementation of the agreement reached between the two sides in Moscow last November.
Prof. Rabbani led the Mujahideen delegation and the Russian delegation was headed by Andronov, a member of the Russian parliament and advisor to the Vice President Rutskoi. A representative of Uzbekistan also attended the talks.	*
Prof. Rabbani criticized Uzbekistan for sending of arms, ammunition and fuel to the Kabul regime. The Russian and Uzbek delegates denied the allegation.
Andronov said that a total of 60 Russia military advisors were in Kabul of whom 50 had already left Afghanistan and the remaining 10 will be withdrawn soon. The Mujahideen and Western sources estimated the number of Soviet military advisors around 300 who were stationed in Kabul, Mazar and Kunduz.
During the meeting, the Mujahideen insisted on the need for a transitional Islamic government, on which both sides agreed in Moscow.
WFP drops food in ‘ central Afghanistan
UN World Food Program (WFP) said on February 19 that it would begin air-dropping 200 tons of food this week into central Afghanistan.
The Rome-based WFP said bad roads and snow had cut off food supply routes. The airdrops will back up efforts by Iran, which has been dropping food into the region since last November, said WFP.
Iran has sent 20 plane-loads of food to Hazarajat and to planes to Kabul. Hazrarajat is Shia-dominated area.
Andronov told that when the Mujahideen succeeded to establish such a government in Kabul, Russia will recognize it.-
Prof. Rabbani announced the release of three Soviet POWs in line with agreement reached in Moscow. The fathers of the three prisoners had came to Islamabad to take their sons with them .The three released prisoners were Mohammad Qasim, Rustam Beg and Mohammad Naser.
Mohammad Naser returned to Uzbekistan, but the two others -Mohammad Qasim and Rustam Beg refused to return. They said they will remain with the Mujahideen until the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
Efforts by Mikhail Karpov, a diplomat of Russian Embassy in Islamabad, and their fathers to persuade the two prisoners to return home did not succeed.
The Mujahideen had told Russians they will give prisoners freedom of choice and will not return them by force.
The two sides could not agree on a joint communique. It seemed that the Russians were only interested in the release of their prisoners, while the Mujahideen wanted implementation of the whole agreement reached in Moscow.
The spokesman of the Afzali Front, which had signed a deal for ex change of prisoners with the Russians, told AFGHANews that Russia failed to fulfill their promise to secure the release of the remaining five Mujahideen prisoners from Kabul. The Russians claim that the prisoners whom the Mujahideen wanted to be released could not be traced. The prisoners released in the deal say that they saw them in jail before they were released.
Dr. Felix Ermacora, the UN reporter on human rights, has been informed of the issue.