AFGHANews Vol7, No 9, May 1, 1991, page ©
FromThe Battlefields
Kunduz Province
• Dasht-i-Archi District was liberated when a militia commander defected to the Mujahideen on April 7, Hindukush News Agency reported.
Sufi Ismail, a Hezb Island (Hikmatyar) commander joined the Kabul regime last year and was made the chief commander of regime forces in the town. After ■ his defection to Hezb, regime forces and the town came under control of Hezb and Jami'at Island. The report does not give any figures for the number of armed men who defected to the Mujahideen in Dasht-i-Archi.
Dasht-i-Archi is located between Kunduz and Khwaja Ghar. This town provided safe passage for the regime supply convoys to Khwaja Ghar, where the Kabul regime has a garrison, and which it calls its provincial capital of Takhar since the liberation of Taliqan. The liberation of Dasht-i-Archi will isolate the Khwaja Ghar garrison, which is atarget of future Mujahideen attack.
•• The Mujahideen of Jami'at under the command of Khan Mohammad killed 13 militiamen, captured 30 and seized SO Kalashnikov rifles and three ZPU (14.6 mm) guns on April 14 in Ali Aabad District Four enemy posts were destroyed in the attack.
The militiamen belonged to the Sayyed of Kayan's group. Ali Aabad is located on Baghlan-Kunduz road, which connects the Salang highway to Shir Khan, on the Soviet border.
Two Mujahideen were killed in the operation. This report was signed by Arif Khan, Jami’at Chief Commander in Kunduz Province.	,
Baghlan Province
The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed six enemy soldiers and wounded many more in the Jilawgeer area along the Baghlan-Kunduz highway on April 5:
They destroyed four posts and seized 12 Kalashnikov rifles and some ammunition. One Mujahid was martyred and four sustained injuries.
Herat Province
•	The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed three militiamen and seized eight Kalashnikov rifles in Pul-i-Khaima Doozan of Enjeel District on April 8.
On the same day, the Mujahideen killed 35 regime troops, wounded 11 and captured 10 in Saawa area of Enjeel. They seized 17 Kalashnikovs, two machine-guns, one RPG rocket launcher and some ammunition. Eight Mujahideen were killed and 15 were wounded.
•	The Mujahideen of Jami'at captured 17 enemy soldiers and seized 10 Kalashnikov rifles on Herat-Torghundi road on April 8.
•	Two soldiers were captured and one truck seized by the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Khosh Rabat area of Kushk District on Herat-Torghundi road on April 12.
On the same day, the Mujahideen attacked a regime base on the highway, capturing two soldiers and killing or wounding some others. The Mujahideen also seized some arms and ammunition. Further details are not available.
•	The Mujahideen of Jami'at ambushed an enemy convoy in Herat-Toorghundi toad cm April 7, killing 20 soldiers and capturing six. They destroyed six trucks and one tank.
0 A militia group of 20 men surrendered to the Mujahideen in Dargak area of Karokh District on April 9. They . brought with them 25 Kalashnikov rifles, two rocket launch-os, two machine-guns and one mortar.
0 The Mujahideen destroyed two security posts at Herat airport on April 9, killing two enemy soldiers and capturing 9. They seized five Kalashnikov rifles, one wireless set and some ammu-
nition. Fighting still continued when this report was filed.
•	The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed a militia commander, captured eight militiamen and seized eight Kalashnikov rifles, one mortar and two radio sets on April 17 in Karash area of Obe District. The area was freed from control by regime militiamen.
Badghis Province
Fifteen militiamen surrendered to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Qala-i-Naw on April 8 . bringing with them 50 Kalashnikov rifles, two rocket launchers, two machine-guns, two pistols and one R-105 wireless set.The attack was launched under the command of Abdul Aziz.
Jawzjan Province
The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed nine enemy troops, wounded nine and seized five Kalashnikov rifles on April 9 in Aqcha District, Commander Qazi Yasin reported.
The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed or wounded 70 enemy troops and captured 80 in Sar-i-Pul District on April 19.
Forty" soldiers joined the Mujahideen. They seized one tank, one truck, 120 guns of different types and some ammunition and foodstuffs.
As the result of this operation, which was launched under the command of Mohammad Rahim, about thirty villages were liberated and 60 security posts were destroyed.
Five Mujahideen were killed and 17 sustained injuries. The report is signed by Qazi Yasin, Jami'at chief administrator in Jawzjan province.
Ghor Province
•	The Mujahideen killed 11 militiamen, wounded 8 and captured 280 in Jawand District in four days of fighting which began on April 7. They were brought into the area by helicopter.
The Mujahideen seized 300 light weapons, three heavy machine-guns, five mortars, four R-105 wireless sets and some ammunition.
•	In three days of fighting , the Mujahideen of Jami'at killed four militiamen, captured 25 - and seized 30 weapons and ammunition in Komonj area of Shahrak District.
On April 12, the Mujahideen captured 11 Kalashnikov rifles and seven RPG-7 rocket launchers.
On April 14, fifteen militiamen were captured and three were killed.
On April 15, one militia commander was killed and 10 armed militiamen were captured.