BFGHRH HEHS '.'01.111, HO. 17,     1/9/1907,PH6E 5
                              INTERVIEW WITH AHMAD SHAH MASOUD (PART Ip
Following is the first part, of the text of an interview with Ahmad Shah Masoud, the famous commander of Mujahideen in the North. He was interviewed by Abdul Hafiz, a member of the .Political Office of J.I.A., in Worsaj sub-district of Takhar province on July 21, 1987. Part II of the interview will be on Masoud's views on political solution of the Afghanistan issue and part III on the activities of the Supervisory Council of the North.
Q. How do you survey the general situation of war this year.?t A. Russians’ main military goal this year has been to close the borders. This is why most of their attacks were focused on Eastern and Southern Afghanistan near the borders--such as 'Paktiaand Kandahar--and to some extent on the West in Herat.,,-Thus, enemy's operations have been relatively less in the Cpn-ral and Northern parts of Afghanistan.
The main goals pursued by Mujahideen--and especially by our fronts in the North--have been to destroy enemy's military, posts and garrisons and to clean up the area from the enemy* The reason is that we are at the stage of building Paigahs (bases); thus we mostly focus our attacks on enemy targets in mountainous areas.
As far as we can see, the enemy has failed in implementing its plan to close the borders. It had failed in the past, and it has failed again. Of course, the enemy has created some problems along the way, but it has not been able to stop Mujahideen movement.
on the Mujahideen side, our war of "wearing down" ha? continued. Like last year, we have also continued our semi-mobile wars with success. One example is the conquest of Kalafgan garrison which was defeated in 45 minutes and Mujahideen captured it.
                                          ■
o. How do you view Mujahideen’s victory in Kalafgan from military point of view?
A. From military point of view, it was indeed a step forward. When we look at the combination of the troops which took part in the operation, we see they come from different bases such as Keshem (Badakhshan);Farkhar, Worsaj and Kalafgan (Takhar)^ Khoost wa Fereng (8aghlan>: Panjshir(Parwan); and the Central units. They all participated in the operation under one command. This shows Mujahideen’s progress in bringing about unity, order, and coordination among themselves.
From a tactical point of view, the operation was "semi-mobile" war. In such a war, enemy’s weak point is discovered, forces are brought together from different places, a sudden attack is launched on the enemy, and then the forces are dispersed again.
The fact that with the help of God we have reached the stage to undertake mobile and semi-mobile wars is a giant step forward compared to the past.
Q. How is the war situation in your principle base, i.e.;Panj-
shir?
A. We can not call Panjshir as our principle base. Everywhere is our principle base; Among our bases. Panjshir is one of our
ordinary bases.