Vol 5, No 11
June 1, 1989
Regime convenes 'Loya Jirga'
Najib runs out of political initiatives
Recent fighting has left scenes of devastation that goes >eyond what Westerners have previously know about the conflict , writes John F. Bums, a New York Times correspondent who travelled under the protection of the regime to the Salang valley 80 kilometers north of Kabul.
The reporter counted in one 12-mile stretch north of the garrison town of Jabul Seraj 157 trucks smashed where they were hit by the Muslim guerrillas' rocket and machinegun fire. Many of the wrecks were tankers carrying fuel from a railhead town near the Soviet border, 250 Miles north of Kabul.
"But the twisted and blackened metal that litters the roadside, and a large number of tanks and trucks that have been blasted off the road into the
Turn to page ( 5 )
A two-day "Loya Jirga" convened by the regime ended in Kabul after extending the emergency situation for six months.
Loya Jirga { Grand Assembly) takes its name from a traditional gathering of elders and dignitaries in Afghanistan to discuss issues of national importance. The communist regime, using the name of Jirga, has convened several meetings of its supporters to gain legitimacy.
In an 80-minute speech in the Opening session, Najib repeated what he has said in the past He accused Pakistan of interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, offered a ceasefire and asked for the formation of a 3-member delegation to negotiate with the opposition and King Zahir Shah.
He threatened Pakistan with rocket attacks against refugees camps if it continued to support the Mujahideen.
Najib said that if die commanders agreed to stop fighting, his government would give them material assistance
Peshawar talks make no progress
The nine-day long talks between delegates of the Interim Government of the Mujahideen and Iran-based Coalition ended without making any progress on the issue of representation of the Shia parties in the cabinet of the Interim government.
But the two sides agreed to form a six-member committee, three from each side, to continue consultation.
At the end of Prof. Rabbani's trip to Iran the two sides had agreed that a delegation of the eight-party coalition would visit Pakistan to hold further talks. Karim Khalili arrived in Pakistan on May 17 at the head of a four-member delegation.
The delegation met with the
President of the Interim Government, Profit Mujaddidi, Prime Minister Sayyaf and other leaders of the Mujahideen.
Five rounds of formal talks were held between the two side. The negotiating team of the interim government included Prof. Rabbani, Jami'at leader, Nabi Mohammadi, Harakat Inqilab Chief, Engineer Ahmad Shah, Ali Ansari and Farooq Aazam.
The central issues in the talks were the number of ministerial seats for the Iran-based Coalition and other related problems. The Interim Government had agreed to give five ministerial seats in a 28-member cabinet to the eight-party
Turn to page ( 2 )
and military rank with all privileges. In other words, he wants the commanders to become his militiamen.
He claimed that in Nooristan and Bamyan the self-government program was operating with the assistance of the regime. He was referring to the deal the regime had made with Colonel Sarwar in western Nooristan and Sayed Mansoor of the Ismailia community in Kayan, Bamyan.
Sarwar was driven out of Nooristan two years ago because his connection with the government was revealed to the ordinary Nooristanis. Sayed Mansoor of Kayan oily controls the areas inhabited by the Ismailia community.
The Jirga extended the emergency situation announced after Soviet withdrawal for six months. Najib had chosen the delegates in the Jirga from among his supporters. They came from the cities controlled by the regime.
The regime controls less than 20% of Afghan territory and only a fraction of the country's population. There are more than five million refugees living outside Afghanistan.
The situation in Afghanistan does not permit real gatherings of elders. Therefore, convening such a meeting under the traditional name of Jirga does not give it legitimacy.
Invitation letters woe sent to field commanders toparticipate inthe Jirga, but no significant Mujahideen figures attended the meeting.
The interim government of the Mujahideen called the Kabul Jirga a political ploy.
Observers believe that Najib's political initiatives have failed to produce positive results. The regime has no choice other than adopting hardline policies in the form of military activities. The decision of the Jirga to extend the emergency indicates the direction in which the situation will develop in the near future.