iN THE NAMEOF ALMIGHTY ALLAH j
AFGHAN^.
 A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM I‘AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN A y
    POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN. 1 A
       VOL. III.. NO. 23, 1/12/S987. V
                            THE ENEMY’S POLITICAL AND MILITARY DEFEATS
 At the beginning of the current year the Soviets changed their tactics by intensifying their political and propaganda offensives against the Resistance. They announced a ! cease-fire "which was immediately rejected by the Mujahideen and not observed by the • Soviets and their puppets. National Reconciliation was the name of another political campaign which was launched for the purpose of weakening the position of the Resistance. This also failed because no major fighting front laid down arms, no political party in the Resistance accepted the puppets offer and no considerable number of refugees returned.                      ,
 Attempts to unify the ranks of the puppet party failed. The 2nd conference of the puppet's was a clear witness of there being such a rift inside the puppet party that it led to the purge of the pro-Babrak faction.
 The enemy tried very hard to score a victory in the diplomatic field and aimed at reducing the number of votes cast in favor of the UN resolution calling for the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of the foreign (Soviet) troops.
                                                      *rs
 The outcome of the General Assembly's voting was disastrous for the Soviets and their puppets because the number of votes in favor of the resolution increased by one compared to last year and reached the record number of 123
 The recent military defeats of the puppet army is very worrying for the Soviets. The Mujahideen’s capture of Keran Garrison and the liberation of Sangcharak District in less than one month are crushing defeats for the puppets. It is not the fall of the garrisons themselves which has made tbe Soviets worried but they are afraid because it has become a new pattern in the war. If this tactic of bringing a large number of forces from different areas and attacking the enemy s isolated garrisons in well-planned surprise attacks is adopted by all the Mujahideen . the Soviets and their puppets will be forced to revise their whole strategy of war. That means bringing more troops, introducing new weapons, changing present military tactics and the total failure of their present political compaign.
 The defection of Najib's brother to the Mujahideen is a source of personal embarrassment far Najib who is trying to give his puppet rule a colour by convening a mock Loya -Jerga in Kabul
 Although the failure of the Soviets in their political and military campaigns against the Resistance is clear, the Soviets are not ready to accept defeat. They wiil continue with their propaganda compaign and military offensive for at least sometime in the future
                            NAJIB’S BROTHER DEFECTED TO THE MUJAHIDEEN
 Mohammad Seddique, the younger brother of Najib, the head of the puppet regime, defected to the Mujahideen in the last week of October. Seddique who was accompanied by his wife and children entered the liberated zone after getting assurance from the Mujahideen for his safety. He wa3 then escorted by the Mujahideen from Jamiat to the Panjshir valley.            ‘
 CKU
O F