AFGHANews Vol 5, No 10, May 15,1989, page Q
Afghans should be helped to determine their future
The struggle of Afghans to determine their future is close to victory. To reach that goal, continuationof armed struggle is necessary and they need moral and material support of the world community.
International support for the resistance played a key role in driving the Soviet invaders out of Afghanistan. The world supported Afghans because they were invaded by a superpower and were deprived of the right for self-determination.
In the UN, NAM and OIC resolutions which were passed by absolute majority of votes, in addition to the call for withdrawal of Soviet troops the right of Afghans to determine their future also were emphasized.
The withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan was a victory for Afghans and all those who lent their support to Afghans in their just struggle. Soviets have left but the issue of the right of self-determination has not been solved yet.
Though the Soviet troops have left, that country's military advisors still operate in Afghanistan and great quantities of very sophisticated weapons are being sent to the puppet regime in Kabul. Soviets seem determined to impose their puppets on the people of Afghanistan by arms , money and political support.
National reconciliation, coalition government and autonomy for different regions are traps designed by Moscow to insure the survival of its puppets and through them their control in a neighboring country.
For Afghans and the majority of world's nations Najib's regime is illegal and unacceptable. Afghans cannot coexist with a party which has committed untold crimes against its own people during the 10 years of war. The call for peace does not make sense from a man who has been the founder of KHAD which is responsible for the murder and torture of tens of thousands of Afghans. This is why no significant individual or group has accepted these propaganda ploys and armed struggle still continues.
This is why no political solution is available for the Afghan problem. Military defeat of the regime is the only option left for the purpose of bringing peace to Afghanistan.
Some people expected a quick victory of the Mujahideen over the regime forces after the withdrawal of Soviet troops. Now that the war has been prolonged for some months, they think that military victory of the Mujahideen is difficult and think in terms of a negotiated settlement with the regime.*
This way of thinking is as naive as the expectation of an early victory for the Mujahideen. Though the Mujahideen’s final victory has not. materialised, die enemy is loosing ground gradually. If the enemy loses 150 tanks and trucks in 15 days fighting in Sorobi front, how long can it take such tremendous losses of men and material? Soviets may give aid to the regime but foreign aid has a limit. If the war is escalated in the rest of the country the puppet regime will find the situation very difficult to control.
A quick victory is a desirable think for the Mujahideen and their supporters but the speed of development in the military field depends on internal factors such as weather, level of supplies, coordination among different groups. Speeding up things for the sole purpose public relations could lead to disastrous mistakes.
Despite the delay of few months of the Mujahideen victory, the people in Afghanistan, those with the Mujahideen and those living under control of the regime, consider the victory of the Mujahideen inevitable.
The right for self-determination is the natural right of Afghans. If is not achieved peacefully it worth fighting for. Support for such a cause is a moral duty of all. It is not taking side in a civil war because the war against the regime is the continuation of the war for liberation.
By Habib Rahman
The US ambassador's remarks about the negative role of Iran and Soviet Union, expressed in an Interview with BBC was unfair to Iran and offending to Afghans.
Mr. Robert Oakley, US ambassador to Pakistan, told BBC that if Iran and Soviet Union supported their agents, Afghanistan could turn into another Lebanon.
This was an unfair remark about the role of Iran, a country which has supported our cause and continues to do so.
Although Iran's material contribution to Afghan Jehad has not been as significant as Afghans expected from a friendly Islamic country, that country's political, moral and humanitarian support to the resistance was very important
To compare the role of Soviet Union which invaded Afghanistan with Iran which opposed the aggression is unfair indeed.
Mr. Oakley's remark is very offending to the Iran-based parties and other Afghans. Shia parties are the inseparable part of the Afghan resistance. Their absence from the interim government does not make them legible to be compared with the communist party in Afghanistan. All Afghans are patriots no matter whether are based in one neighboring country or another.
Difficulties between Iran and the United States should not justify unfair remarks.
Afghans' struggle against the Soviet Union show that they do not tolerate domination of outside forces, close or far. This nation will not allow outside powers to divide their country or turn it into another Lebanon. Afghan Shia community is as patriot as its Sunni community.
Shia groups are not the agents of Iran and Sunni groups can not be the agents of Pakistan or other countries. They have sought refuge in the neighboring countries to continue struggle for the freedom of their country. They consider the people of these countries their Islamic brothers who are obliged by their common religion, Islam, to support their oppressed brothers.