AFGHAN
NEWS
                  A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                             Post Office Box No. 264, Peshawar- Pakistan.
                                SPECIAL ED1TI0N,25/11/1986.
                                            A CHANGE IN THE NORTH
                                                 By MAS(X)D KHALIL I
 The most strategic provinces of the North of Afghanistan such as Baghlan, Takhar, Kundoz and Badakhshan on the Northern flank of Hindukush, neighbouring enemy land (USSR) and Parwan and Kapisa on the Southern flank of Hindukush neiboring Kabul, are no doubt important and vital both for Mujahideen and the Russian invading ~ forces. "Dominate Hindukush rule Afghanistan" a theory in the mind of Russian strategists, clearly shows the importance of the North .
    It is also important because
    (a) It is mountainous with base areas which can not be easily penetrated
    (b)  907. of its civilian population still lives there
    (c)  Salang supply route, backbone of Soviet logistics, runs through.
    (d)  It neighbors Soviet Russia from one side and Kabul from another.
    (e)  People of occupied central Asian Republics of USSR share the same language, religion and culture with the people of the north which creates a kind of penetration phobia in the mind of the Russians.
    (f)  It has a historically sound cultural heritage with 100% devout muslims.
    (g)  It has four regular seasons and fertile flat areas good for agriculture
    (h)  And lastly it has a large number of Mujahideen with at least six years of war experience.
 Realising the strategic importance of the northern provinces, the Russians right from the beginning of their invasion directed their efforts to pacify the people, control the area and, if possible, Sovietize the whole society. This called for extensive work in their part
 For the Mujahideen and for the people too, it was not difficult to know what Soviets really want in Afghanistan and particularly in the North. Almost everyone knew miserable stories of Muslims in Russia, which had been brought by those who had escaped to Afghanistan about sixty years ago. The problem for Mujahideen was not "what to do" but the problem was "how to do" it. This needed not only extensive work but also organized one with greater sacrifice on their side, too.