  AEGHANJSES&___YGkJl___SCL21___1M1M_______EAGE.iL
                                                TAKHAR PROVINCE
                               THE ENEMY OFFENSIVE AGAINST FERKHAR FAILED TO ACHIEVE ITS AIM.
                     The combined Soviet and puppet forces -which launched an offensive in Ferkhar on November 3rd -withdrew after suffering heavy casualties without achieving anything.
 The enemy troops, which consisted of the 18th and 20th divisions of the puppet army, and a Soviet unit reached Ferkhar city after considerable difficulties. They were ambushed along the route and suffered heavy casualties the exact details of which are not yet available,
                                                                                                                       t
 On 5th November, when the enemy forces were busy consolidating their positions, they came under attack and a fierce battle continued from 9,00am to 3.00pm
 The e nemy became demoralized, abandoned the area and retreated, So far there are no ' details of casulties for either side.
 Here is the report of the engagements of the Mujahideen with the invading forces around Taleqan, the provincial capital of Takhar province:
 22/10/1986, Combined forces of the enemy launched an attack against the Mujahideen position in the* center of Takhar province. Mujahideen resisted well. 45 puppet and Soviet soldiers were killed or wounded.
 30/10/1986 Soviet and puppets supported by tanks and airplanes attacked Mujahideen controlled area in Ahahan Dara. 12 enemy soldiers were killed and 6 puppet soldiers captured. Mujahideen captured 21 Ak-47 guns from the enemy. During the ten days of bombardments of the residential areas of Aahen Dara 25 houses were destroyed and 30
 civilians killed,
                     4/10/1986. Mujahideen from Jamiat attacked a security post of the enemy in Taleqan. 4
 soldiers were killed and 4 guns siezed.
                     11/11/1986 Mu jahideen attacked an enemy post in Aaq Masjed, 10 enemy soldiers and officers were killed and two others wounded. Mujahideen captured 2 RPDs and 6 Ak-47
 guns
 In these operations the report does not give any number for the casualties of the Mu jahideen It should be mentioned that this force is the same which attacked Farkhar to establish the garrision but failed.
                              SOVIET OFFENSIVE AGAINST SHEMALI
 According to reliable sources of Mujahideen the Soviets launched a large offensive against Chemali on November 11th In this offensive two Soviet divisions and a large number of puppet troops are taking part. The offensive was launched after heavy aerial and ground bombardments of the area by the enemy. The enemy lost ten tanks and APCs in Totomdara ( about 7 Km. North of Charikar city on the Salang highway), three tanks in Jabulseraj { at the mount of the Salang valley 75 Km. from Kabul) and five tanks in GuSbahar ( at the mouth of the Panjshir valley) The report says that the Mujahideen lost 9 men during these operations.
 Commander Masood gave orders to the Mujahideen of Salang and Panjshir to attack the enemy from the rear In order to stop Mujahideen's re-inforcements reaching Shemali, the Soviets launched attacks against Feraj and Abdara side valleys which are located at the lower end of the Panjshir valley, On November 15th two enemy helicopters which were landing commando troop in Abdara were shot down with DShKM fire.