Vol 7, No 13	July	1,1991
I		HI
II	n Herat	
Fighting in Zindajan still continues but at a lower intensity than the past. Enemy troops are still stationed outside Zindajan on two sides. Earlier, they had besieged the city from four directions.
The Mujahideen estimate the total losses of the enemy at 2,800 killed and 1,500 wounded. They also claim to have destroyed 110 tanks and trucks, seven jets and five helicopters.
The attack on Zindajan began on May 4. The majority of the residents of Zindajan and some parts of Ghoryan have become refugees. Some have crossed to Iran and others have taken refuge in neighboring areas.
According to one report, more than 100 bodies of young men which had been thrown into the river were washed ashore. These schoolchildren were brought from the city by the regime to fight against the Mujahideen. The Kabul regime threw their dead bodies into the river to avoid reaction from their relatives. The incident caused tension in the city and a lot of people demonstrated against the regime.
The Mujahideen have recently increased their attacks against enemy targets and communication lines close to the city.
The casualties of the Mujahideen have been surprisingly low: killed and wounded do not exceed 250. But among those killed were six junior commanders. The Mujahideen displayed a unique sense of unity during two months of fighting in Herat. This unity foiled enemy designs and saved the Mujahideen from defeat
A BBC correspondent who visited Herat reported that the people of Herat are very critical of regime’s attack on Zindajan. Ulama in the city, both Shia and Sunni, told him that the national reconciliation program of the regime
To page (3)
Supervisory Council retakes Khwaja Ghar;
Khanabad
Mui keep
The Mujahideen scored two major victories in the North during the past two weeks when they recaptured Khwaja Ghar and repulsed a massive enemy offensive against Khanabad District.
The Mujahideen recaptured Khwaja Ghar on June 21, inflicting heavy losses on enemy troops. The attack was launched after midnight and by seven o'clock in the morning the town fell to the Mujahideen. They captured 200 enemy troops and seized five tanks, two trucks and large quantities of arms and ammunition. The enemy troops retreated to Dashti-i-Qala and Kunduz.
Khwaja Ghar had first been liberated by the Mujahideen on May 11, but the enemy recaptured it on June 2. The Mujahideen had withdrawn from the city to avoid loss of life but continued to hold the villages around the city and strategic locations overlooking the town. Mujahideen aborted repeated attempts by the regime troops to capture these positions. Dustam militiamen suffered heavy casualties in the fighting.
A major regime attack, launched on June 15, to capture positions of strategic importance south of Khwaja Ghar was repulsed by the Mujahideen. In two days of fighting, the Mujahideen killed 200 of Rashid Dustam's militiamen. The Mujahideen continued to harass enemy communication lines, destroying 13 tanks and 17 vehicles. Two enemy generals, one belonging to to Division No. 53 and the other to the Special Guard, woe killed in Khwaja Ghar.
The people of Khwaja Ghar had evacuated the town before regime recaptured it. Nobody returned while the communists were in control of the area.
Dustam's men looted the town and took the goods to Kunduz for sale. According to Commander Arif, the
people of Kunduz refused to buy the stolen goods. This infuriated the Dustam militiamen, and they began beating ordinary people in the streets. The dignitaries of Kunduz intervened to stop the militiamen but they were humiliated too. People took a procession to the governor's house asking him to stop excesses by the militiamen against the people. The governor said that he was helpless and advised the people to close their shops and houses. The shops remained closed for three days. Militiamen looted several shops in Kunduz and harassed women.
The report adds that General Begi disarmed some Dustam units, which resulted in increased tension between the two men. They were summoned to Kabul to resolve their differences.
A major enemy offensive to capture Khanabad District was repulsed fry the Mujahideen.
The attack, launched on June 23, followed massive aerial and ground bombardment of the district In the first two days of the attack, the enemy captured some areas, but its advance was checked on the third day. Two days later, the Mujahideen launched a counteroffensive pushing the enemy out of the areas .it had captured.
The Mujahideen of Jami'at, Ittihac (Prof. Sayyaf), some groups of Hezb (Hekmatyar) and other parties present in Khanabad fought together against the enemy. The Supervisory Council sent reinforcements and supplies to Khanabad at the request of the local Mujahideen.
Many houses and shops woe destroyed as a result of bombardment and the regime troops burned much of the local harvest. The civil population had evacuated the town. The militiamen of Sayyed Kayan suffered heavy losses in Khanabad; more than 100 woe killed. The casualties of the Mujahideen have not been reported yet