     AFGHAN NEWS            No. 19        23-11-1985           P-i6i
                  WHO_IS_WTOraNG^TIiE^RUSSO-^GHAN__WAR
       Any battle.-is fought with the aim to win. The purpose of each side is to defeat the enemy.
       In trhe case of the Sovie.t-Afghan war the Soviet Union as a super power is trying to defeat the people of Afghanistan.
       If they win a conpaign here and there, it can not be counted as a victory. Destroying a mud-house , killing a donkey and setting a harvest on fire, with their sophisticated weapons is neither bravery nor success. It is cowardness of a modern type, which causes embarrassment and frustration.
       If they loose a compaign it is shaming. A nation vzith a few primitive weapons is shooting down SU-25 Jets, MI-24 Helicopters and destroying T-62 and T-72 modern tanks. For the Soviet Union as a super power the achievement is not something to boast about, while their defeat is very embarrassing. They are loosing in both cases.
       It is the Afghan who is winning. If he is killed he will be a martyr whom people respect and if he kills he is a champion and can be proud. This is all because the Soviets are not fighting for a just cause, they are aggressors and the end of any aggression is embarrassment and. frustration.
                       ANDIiHOY DISTRICT (FARYAB PROVINCE)
       1.0-8-85 ■
       Soviet-DRA forces besieged villages of Khane Charbagh sub-district. There were about 150 enemy tanks and APCs, aerial cover was provided by 8 helicopters. The Mujahideen resisted well and under cover of darkness broke the enemy lines and retreated safely. The Mujahideen killed six soldiers and captured 2 AX-Ujs and destroyed two tanks.
       The Mujahideen ambushed a group of militia in Khane Charbagh subdistrict and killed 15 of them and captured 5 others, 18 AX-47s and 2 RDP machineguns were captured by the Mujahideen.
       The enemy retaliated with aerial and artillery bombardipents of the area which caused’the; deathof 20 innocent civilians. Four Mujahids were also killed during the operation.
       8-10-85_
       The enemy attacked the position of the Mujahideen in Khane Charbagh district and tried to besiege it with a large force. Mujahideen clashed with them, killed some soldiers and destroyed 3 armoured cars Three Mujahids were injured , On the same day the DRA forces attacked the Mujahideen villages. Fighting took place between the two sides. More than 10 soldiers were killed . One Mujahid was martyred. The enemy bombed the villages heavily as a result of which 15 civilians were martyred.