----------------AFGHANews	Vol	5,	No	20,	October	15,	1989,	page©
^ " ■■
News
From the battlefields
Parwan province
The Mujahideen's coordinated operation from southern Salang to Bagram Air Base continues, and the Salang highway remains blocked, according to a message from Commander Ahmad Shah Masood on October 5.
The operations began on October 2. In the first three days. Mujahideen destroyed two outposts near the Bagram air base, setting on fire two tanks and three trucks. 25 five enemy troops were killed or wounded in those posts.
In Jangal Bagh, near Parwan's provincial capital of Charikar, eight vehicles, including tanks and armored cars, were destroyed. Two more trucks were set on fire in Matak, near Jabal Seraj.
Enemy troops in Qala-i-Surkh (the Red Fort), in Jabal Seraj, suffered heavy casualties because of Mujahideen’s artillery bombardment. Details of the casualties are not available yet, however.
In Orati of Salang, Mujahideen destroyed five military trucks and two tanks. They captured four out posts and set fire to enemy bases in Olang and Ahangaran. A total of 40 enemy troops were killed in Salang.
Mujahideen casualties included the martyrdom of a great commander. He was Qari Kamaluddin, the General Commander of Salang. Two other Mujahideen were martyred along with him.
Commander Masood's report adds that in retaliation to Mujahideen attacks, the regime artillery heavily bombarded residential areas, killing and wounding a number of civilians.
Kabul province
Commander Anwar Khan said that Mujahideen pushed back a severe onslaught of the Kabul regime aimed at
reopening the Jalalabad-Soroobi highway on October 6. Scud and Oragan missiles fell and airborne fighters dropped bombs along the highway. Two tanks were burned when they tried to pass the road in the vicinity of Sorobi Hydropower Station.
Following the defeat of the regime attempt to opening the highway, Antonov transport planes carried Supplies from the capital to Jalalabad at night after 8 p.m.
The Jalalabad-Soroobi highway has been closed to traffic since September 24 despite regime attempts to reopen it.
Copter crash kills 26 north of Kabul
An Afghan government MI-8 helicopter carrying civilians, including women and children, crashed and burned north of the capital on September 25.
Hospital sources in Kabul said 26 people were killed in the crash, including soldiers.
"The helicopter may have been carrying a West German television crew on its way to Kabul from the Bagram Air Force Base, 50 kilometers of the Capital, when it crashed because of technical reasons," a regime spokesman said.
used for high-altitude bombing
The Kabul regime has upgraded transport planes for use against Mujahideen positions as high-altitude bombers, said a regime pilot who has defected to the Mujahideen recently.
Lieutenant Ghulam Ghous, 21, said that Kabul regime has turned 36 AN-32 transport planes into high-altitude bombers by attaching special equipment for delivering bombs. Likewise, 24 AN-12 transport planes have been converted to bombers. Each plane can carry 36 bombs weighing 250 kilograms each. These planes' advantage lies in their high-altitude bombing capability. They can bomb from an altitude 9000 meters.
Ghulam Ghaus said that these planes are equipped with a flare delivery system which is used to mislead heatseeking missiles. The plane can fire up to eight flares per second..
He said that after the Soviet withdrawal, 20 transport planes of L-76MP landed in Kabul each day. Each plane can cany up to 36 tons of goods. Two Scud missiles can be transported in one such plane.
Ghulam Ghaus, who served as a pilot of a transport plane, said that pilots are happy to go to western Afghanistan, where they can smuggle drags and transport merchants who give money to the pilots, providing a good source of income.
He said that the Soviets had three AN-26 reconnaissance planes working in conjunction with the Soviet satellite system. One of them crashed near Bagram, another in Zabul. The last one, which bore the number 11, returned to the Soviet Union.
The defecting pilot said that he saw a transport plane, flown by one Abdur Rauf, hit by a mortar shell at Khost airport, killing four people on board and damaging the plane.
Scud missiles land in Pakistan
• Two Scud missiles fired by the Kabul regime landed in South Waziristan on October 1, but caused no casualties. The missiles landed about eight kilometers from Miianshah town.
Pakistan's Foreign Office filed a strong protest with Najibullah's regime over the incident. Complaints also have been lodged with the UN observers' team, UNGOMAP, which monitors violations of the Geneva Accords.
A Scud missile costs one million dollars. They were given to the Kabul regime, after the Soviet troop withdrawal, to boost its military strength. Mujahideen have reported that the missiles are manned and fired by Soviet advisors. Scud missiles have a range of more than 300 kilometers and deliver a charge of 1,000 kilograms.