AFGHANews Vol 7, No 1, January 1,1991, page
Gorbachev's Afghan involvement contradicts Nobel peace award
The 1990 Nobel Peace Prize was given to a representative of Gorbachev in Oslo, because he himself could not attend the ceremony due to problems at home.
A group of Afghans and their Norwegian supporters demonstrated in Oslo on the day of the ceremony to show their displeasure with the decision by the Nobel Peace Committee. Afghans hold Gorbachev responsible for the continuation of the war and Soviet interference in Afghanistan.
A group of nationalists also staged demonstration in front of Norway’s embassy in Moscow protesting the decision because they find Gorbachev’s nationality policy very harsh and undemocratic.
The Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan also issued a statement on the occasion which is presented here: The Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan emphasizes that Nobel Peace Prize of 1990 to Gorbachev is an insult to the Afghan people, who have fought for the independence and liberty of their country for 10 years. It is a fact that the Soviet troops withdrew from Afghanistan in 1989, but....
•Gorbachev was a member of the Soviet leadership even before 1985, and shares the responsibility' for the Soviet warfare against their neighbor during those years.
•Gorbachev was the leader of the Soviet Communist Party in a period when the war in Afghanistan was intensified - no doubt in an attempt to gain a final victory over the Afghan Resistance through massive warfare against the civilian population.
•Gorbachev is the leader of a country which is still giving heavy military assistance to the Kabul regime, and thereby maintaining the armed conflict.
It is a fact that Gorbachev was the leader who finally realized that a military victory in Afghanistan would be too high a price for the Soviets to pay, and who accomplished the withdrawal. This realization was the result of the situation in Afghanistan and in the rest of the world, and of the Afghan people's struggle for freedom.
The Nobel Peace Price for 1990 is given to a statesman who is responsible few the death of one and a half million Afghans, for displacement of 5 to 7 million refugees, for destruction of a country causing the agricultural production to fall to 50 percent and and for laying millions of mines which will claim Afghan lives in the years to
come.
A Peace Price is also an obligation. The Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan wants to emphasizes that the Peace Prize makes claims on the receiver. It is our wish that friends of the Afghan people, all over the world, are standing behind the following demands:
•	President Gorbachev: Be responsible for bringing peace and freedom back to Afghanistan.
•	President Gorbachev: Stop all Soviet military support to Kabul.
•President Gorbachev: Use the Nobel Peace Prize to start removing the mines that your country left behind in Afghanistan.
•	The people of Afghanistan must be permitted to decide their future with out any foreign interference.
The Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan.
Battlefields News
From page (2)
The Mujahideen have reported deployment of some 2,000 Kayan militiamen in the province.
Ningarhar Province
The Mujahideen liberated Kama District, close to the city of Jalalabad on December 18. The regime troops were driven out of their positions in several days of righting. The Kabul regime has admitted losing of some posts in Kama. The Mujahideen say the regime forces suffered heavy casualties in the attack.
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
.Jjb j> oM J
Patience is bitter, but its fruit is sweet.
Meaning: All things come to him who waits.
miyti±0 LSIjIbJ OjLti
A river is made drop by drop.
Meaning: Every little bit counts; or, progress comes from accomplishing many small things.
- J*
Your own deeds are your companions along life's journey.
Meaning: As you brew so shall you drink.
.0.} SL |4£	|4A	4j^	aL»
One's own tongue is a place of safety or of calamity.
Meaning: There is no venom compared to that of the tongue.
*a;: < X'