        23^12-35
        Mujahideen attacked the enemy post in Kaldar district, Twenty soldiers Joined Mujahideen, they brought with them 31 guns and some ammunition.                        H§5AT_PHgVIIjCB >
        It is reported that the Soviets, after their last offensive against Herat city, planted anti-personnel mines along the routes coming to the city and established some posts to protect the city. Mug'abideen clea-^ red most of the mine fields, during the clearing operation some Kuja-hids were killed.
        19-1-36
        Mujahideen attacked the newly established posts of Mawlana Jarui pyiafi, Imam Fakhri kazi headquarters and inflicted great losses on the-enemy.-v During the operation, 30 l-Z.C-47s and five heavy machinguns were captured. The enemy posts were wiped out from the area.
                                   T^I-jAR^gROVIIjCE
        29-12-35
        Mujahideen attacked post Mo. 6 of Khuja Ghar district. Fighting continued for 3 hours, six Communists were killed and two P?SH machinguns were captured. One Mujahid was injured. The next day the enemy bombed the villages which caused some material losses.
                                                       *C“\.
                            THE BHH'flr.LAST OFFENSIVE IN SKBI4ALI
  ‘<!#r Afghan News reported on the enemy offensive against Ghem&li. IJov/ we have detailed reports of what happened.
        The enemy forces which had gathered in Bagran wanted to clear the road p between Bagram and the garrison in Kapisa. Mujahideen from Jamiat under the command of Chaheen engaged the enemy neaj: Abdullah Burg bridge (this bridge is on the Panjshir river).
        They were stopped for a three days. The enemy three directional attacks which were an attempt to encircle and destroy the Mujahideen faced severe resistance . The enemy air forces and long-range artillary pounded the area. Nine posts vie re established between the garrison end Bagram. Mujahideen attacked these posts and forced them to leave the area. As a result of the - fighting in this area 35 tantes and trucks were destroyed and about 200 enemy soldiers (Soviets and their puppets) were killed or -wounded.
        Five soldiers (from the Communist regime) joined the Mujahideen, 2 AIC~
  V,' d-7s guns and some food were captured. Four Kujahids werev martyred and seven others wounded.
        25—12—35                           •  -
        iUjahideen from Jamiat in Xohistan under the Command of Doctor Kaqbin attacked a puppet post of Gulbahar Textile Mills. The post suffered casualties. Two Soviet tanks and one Khad Jeep which were supposed to bring reinforcements for the posts vie re ambushed end destroyed. Among those
        who were killed was
an important officer of the local Khad