RFQHfill H6US UOt.lU, NO, 6,      15/3/1990,  PRUfc  5
Samangan Province
5/2/1986: Groups of Mujahideen clashed with enemy forces near the provincial capital. In three hours of fighting 15 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded and 10 AK-4?s including 2 machineguns were captured.
The Mujahideen had no casualties in the operation.
    Naqibullah speaks about Kandahar situation
Mujahideen general commander of Kandahar, Mullah Naqeeb, recently paid a visit to Peshawar and gave us the following account about the situation in the area. Excerpts:
Ten us something shout summer offensive of 1987.
"....the Russians have four- main bases in Kandahar namely Kandahar Airport, Dashti Sheri, Seelow and their residential areas. The summer offensive of 198? was the largest offensive the Soviets launched since they invaded Afghanistan. This offensive aimed at destroying Mujahid strongholds in the Arghandab area. Hundreds of tanks and APCs were involved. Bombardment, long range artillery and infantry forces were used for 34 days. I call it a big seige. We divided the Mujahideen into small groups. The Russians this time expanded their operational zones at least three times wider than before. All the Mujahideen of the area fought to break the seige together. Kandahar is flat. Mujahideen fought in the gardens and behind the ruined walls. Our underground tunnels and bunkers helped us to take shelter wherever the bombardment was heavier. This time the bombardment was not effective because we had some anti-aircraft weapons in the area. The Russians bombarded our areas from a height of 100 feet.
The new ground-to-ground rockets that the Soviets used were very terrifying. They were long. Our artillery was not effective due to its shorter range. Our food situation was very bad. We were nearly starving. We had only onions and bread. Due to the heavy bombardment, the civilian could not send us food.
We lost many Mujahideen and a lot of civilian in the villages. Thank God they could not capture our strongholds. men with RPG~?s were very effective. Tanks could not come closer. Many enemy tanks were destroyed and burnt. It is very difficult when you do not have enough ammunition. Hie Mujahideen fought well. Enemy casualties became higher as the fighting reached the point of hand to hand fight. Here morale works and the morale of Mujahideen is very good."
ft. Whst do you need?
A. Everything. Ho work, no agriculture, no other internal sources, arid outside sources are so limited.... so we have to get almost everything from the outside. I can say humanitarian help in our area has been little. Once or twice in eight years. We have received very little money from humanitarian organizations but later I was told that they have stopped because we did not send a good report. They do not know how many educated people I have around me. Almost none.