AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page ©
Jami'at to share power with other resistance parties: Prof. Rabbani
Q. Who was responsible for killing of Prof. Ahmad Zai?
A. Assassination of Prof. Ahmad Zai, a prominent member of Jami'at and an old member of the Islamic Movement, was a great loss to the Mujahideen. This is the work of the enemies of the Islamic Movement and those who were worried about the victories of the Mujahideen. Circles opposed to formation of an Islamic government wanted to deprive the Movement from the intellectuals who guarded the ideological frontiers of the Islamic Movement. We . consider this incident a dangerous plot against the Movement
Q. Tell our reader: about the latest yictories of the Mujahideen?
A. The Mujahideen achieved a major victory in the~ north. Developments in the north has deprived the Kabul regime from a hope to recapture the ground it lost to the Mujahideen. We see signs of disintegration of the regime and hope similar activities will take place in other parts of Afghanistan.
The Mujahideen have also scored major victories in Herat and now have reached the parameters of the city. We hope to hear the good news of Mujahideen's further victories. ,
Q. The UN wants to from an interim administration by the end of the month. Do you expect the fall of the Kabul regime through military means or there is still a need for interim administration?	1
A. Although we support the UN efforts to bring peace in Afghanistan, I should mention the following points; The UN plan was designed to bring peace in Afghanistan at a time that the Kabul regime seemed to have a chance of survival. Developments of the past few weeks have changed the situation dramatically. Both the Mujahideen and the UN should reconsider their plan for a political solution and must adjust themselves to the new realities. The UN had considered regime as a party in the conflict in its plan but how that regime is disintegrating, it must not be considered a party.
The main problem is now arrangements for the security of the cities controlled by the regime. A government should be formed to provide security for these areas. Such a government must be formed by the Mujahideen.
All the state powers should be trans-fered to this government.
About the proposed interim government, Jami'at believes it could act as a mean to transfer power from the Kabul regime to a government formed by the Mujahideen. This administration should be set up for only a few weeks.
Jami'at has proposed that KHAD, special guard and police forces of the regime should be dissolved and all communist officers be removed from the army. The Mujahideen forces, should be stationed in strategic locations in Kabul as part of the arrangement for transfer of power. The member of the transitional administration should be chosen by the Mujahideen.
Q. Some people think that Jami'at is making use of delaying tactics in dealing with the UN to buy time for military overthrow of the Kabul regime. What is your answer to this-accusation?
A. Jami'at believe in continuation of armed struggle to overthrow the illegal regime of Najib. Military operations are need to get rid of the warmongering elements. These operations speed up the settlement of the problem and help the political efforts.
While we fight alone, we do not have any intention to monopolize the power. We want all the people of Afghanistan, especially, the Mujahideen parties to participate in future government of Afghanistan.
While holding of elections will provide an opportunity for the participation of all Afghans, even during the transitional period, a council composed of the representatives of all Mujahideen parties to supervise function of the transitional government is a good thing.
Q. The UN envoy seems worried about the recent victories of the Mujahideen. What is the reason for this wotry?
A. I am also surprised by his attitude towards the Mujahideen victories. The UN envoy must be neutral and try to avoid tilting towards one side or the other. We are witness, unfortunately, to the activities aimed at protection of Najib and its criminal friends. Overthrow of the illegal regime of Kabul helps the UN plan and the UN officials need- not to worry if Afghans do the job of solving the issue themselves.
■ Q. What is your position on sup-
ply of wheat to Kabul by Pakistan government?
A. We are not opposed to food supply for the people of Afghanistan, in Kabul and other parts of the country. But, we have reservations about the current program for the following reasons:
This indicates a change in Pakistan policy. The decision to send food to Kabul was taken hastily its negative effect on Jehad was hot considered. Before sending food to Kabul, the UN should have checked the supply situation in Kabul. The Kabul regime has stored enough supplies for its army and party members. The UN should have distributed the present supplies in Kabul before airlifting wheat from Pakistan or other parts of the world. We get reports that even the UN food supplies in Kabul are being used by the regime to feed its army. Under these circumstances sending food is not proper step.
It seems that the UN wants to calm down the civilian population who were raising against the Kabul regime due to its wrong policies. We do not know how the UN will prevent Najib from misusing the food sent for the ordinary Afghans.
Moreover, Kabul is not the only place where the people are facing food shortages. We do not any activity by UN to help other Afghans, living in the countryside, with the same level of urgency.
Najib is the source of all problems in Afghanistan. Any step that prolongs the life of Najib and encourages him and his criminal friends to stay longer should be avoided.
Q. Some persons have reported
that Jami'at commanders have helc discussions with officials of Uzbekistan and Tajikistan. Is it true and what was the purpose of such a meeing?
A. Uzbekistan and Tajikistan were worried that the Mujahideen should not pose any threat to their security. A Mujahideen delegation met with a joint delegation of the two republics along the border to inform them about the position of Mujahideen. The Mujahideen told them that their victory was not posing any threat to the neighboring countries. The Mujahideen wanted good neighborly relation with all of their neighbors and have no intention of interfering in the affairs of them.