  AFGHAN NEWS VOL. II NO. 16         15/S/1986___PAGE fr
 Beside military offensives the Soviets have become active in the political field. They are trying to decieve world opinion by talking about peace . Unfortunately .inside the non-aligned movement there are countries who have not. been courageous enough to condemn the invasion of a non-aligned country by a super power. Unfortunately Cuba and India . both friends of the Soviets, became the chairman of the non-aligned countries one after the other. Although in the meeting of non-aligned countries resolutions which asked lor the withdrawal of foriegn forces from Afghanistan were passed, because of the influence of these two countries the problem of Afghanistan was not given the importance it deserved.
 We hope for a change when. Zimbabwe takes the position of India in, Sepetember.
 The puppet regime has recently announced that Zimbabwe will soon open diplomatic ties with them . Although it is difficult to believe‘this regime, which is so full of lies, if there is any truth in what they claim it would be sad news for the cause of freedom.
 We wonder how Zimbabwe can establish ties with a regime which is protected by more than 150,000 foriegn soldiers. How a lawful elected government which has fought for its own freedom can take a step against, the wishes of millions of Afghans who suffer but continue to fight for their
 freedom.
 The present regime in kabui does not have any legal status and can not represent anybody except the wishes of the Soviets. The problem of Afghanistan is not an internal struggle between progressive forces and reactionaries. It is a genuine liberation war against an aggressor.
  We hope the government of Zimbabwe will not only continue to oppose foriegn intervention in Afghanistan but also give this issue its due position in ail the forums of the non-aligned movement. True non-alignment is the opposition of injustice whichever side it may comes from ,
 With best regards
 Yours Sincerely
 The Mujahideen of Afghanistan.
                                      A LETTER FROM A COMMANDER
 Recently Afghan News recieved a letter from Commander Masood in which he explained the late offensive in Baghlan. Ounduz and Takhar provinces.
 According to the letter, Mujahideen m the area.e specially in the mountainous region have undergone organizational changes. Mujahideen in Andarab, Nahrin, Eshkamish, Khost, Ferkhar, The Center of Takhar and Ounduz have started to form Shoora icounsels) to consult among themselves.