flFGHRH HEIIS WOt.lH, H0.6&7, 1/V !9B7 PAGE V
 of their invasion in Afghanistan. When the Secretary General of the Islamic Conference call them sincere and serious (without practical justification) it gives the aggressors credit in the eyes of Muslims all over the world.
 The beautiful words of Gorbachov to the Islamic Summit blunted the sharp edge of the resolution on Afghanistan and Soviets escapted unnamed after killing half a million muslims and driving out five million others. The Soviets while admiring the position of the Islamic confrence on a lot of issues, has ignored ail the resolutions of the 0.I.C on Afghanistan in the past seven years.
 Showing optimism about the aggressors' words and not mentioning the great sufferings of millions of Muslims in Afghanistan, harms the cause of the Afghans. Beautiful words and admiration of an aggressor does not end the war. Soviets will only leave if they feel continous pressure on their shoulders.                         *
                                         EX-KING BELONGS TO THE PAST
 When there is talk about finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan some people raise the question of returning the ex-king as the head of the government in post-war Afghanistan. These people argue that the Mujahideen parties have killed the Soviets therefore, they are not acceptable to the leaders of the Kremlin. The ex-King had a good relationship with the Soviets and has not been involved in the war for liberation. He can be acceptible to the Soviets.
 The arguementS that the leaders in Kabul must be approved by the Soviets goes against the spirit of the Jehad and the principal for which Afghans have sacrificed so much. It is against the will of people for freedom. People have rejected Soviet choice of leaders and have taken arms to prove that it is the right of Afghans to choose leaders for themselves.
 The rule of the king in the past proved to be disasterous. Economic backwardness, corruption and indifference about religious and national values, the imposition of foreign culture and the opening of the tfoor fcr the Soviets to spread their influence have been characteristics of the ex-ting's role. It would be difficult to immagine his rule would be different in the future, You cnn not teach an old dog new tricks.
 He is a dividing figure instead of bring a symbol for national unity. The majority of Afghan Mujahideen parties feel very string about him. Any attempt to involve him in the future of Afghanistan could trigger groat difficulties. Knowing this, Najib when annoucing his so-called reconcilirticn program singled out Royalists in his speach.
 For any person to play a constructive role ?s i leader it is neccessary to have a natural base amongst the people. The fillers cf a kingdom's power in Afghansitan. city bereucrats and country side landlords have boen shattered as the result of nine years of war. To re-build a new base is too late. The followers of the king put emphasis on the frustration of the people and their timbers of the war. But you can't build a strong organization from such people and thero is no such charisma in the ex-king or his immediate relatives to give new lif" to the; ? people.
 Afghanistan has undergone deep changes. The social fabric has been re-newed. Now the young leadership does not co*”'« from the traditional circles of power. They come from the grass root level with new ideas and outlook. They have gained leadership through their merits in war and in handling the politics in their areas.There is strong evidence that these people will not be satisfied with a leadership which has spent all the seven years of war in growing roses in the comfort of western cities. Lately it has been observed that the supporters of the return of the king which are found mainly in exile are anti-Muj&hideen elements who can not even hide their strong feelings against the commanders and political leaders of the Mujahideen in public.They separate the poor people of Afghanistan from the common Mujahideen and the political parties fighting the Soviets and count on the imaginary support of the first.