[ 1W THE NAME OF ALMIGHTY ALLAH
AFGHANnews
            A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM I'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR-PAKISTAN.
                   VOL. IV, NO. 5, 1/3/1938.
                          DO THE RUSSiRNS SINCERELY WANT TO LEROE AFGHANISTAN?
 The air is tilled with optimism about Russia's willingness to withdraw its troops fro* Afghanistan. President Zia-ul-Haq and Prime Sinister June jo have congratulated Mujahideen on achieving victory. Iran extends full cooperation to Russia on the withdrawal of its troops. The U.S.welcomes Gorbachev's announcement about starting the withdrawal on May 15. India makes frenzied efforts to make up for its past mistake in supporting the puppet regime. The international mass media hail Gorbachev's decision to stop bloodshed iri Afghanistan. The diplomatic circles around the world are convinced that the Afghanistan issue is about to be solved.
 All above would have been "music to Mujahideen's ear" (to paraphrase Cordovez) had they seen any practical signs of Russian's sincerity. As the things stand at the moment, however, all the Russian ballyhoo seems a P.R. gimmick. Russians seem to be trying to offset their great diplomatic defeat at the UN General Assembly and, in the meantime, keep Afghanistan under their control in one way or another.
 The criteria by which to judge Russia's sincerity about the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan should be:         (1>  its
 activities inside Afghanistan, and (2) its behavior at the political level.
 Inside Afghanistan, the Russian troops continue their war against innocent Afghan people. According to a seminar at the SSI, Islamabad, Russian military operations in Afghanistan increased in the first half of February. The Russians are bringing in more arms and ammunition. They are even bringing in construction materials. According to a high level military officer who recently defected to the Mujahideen, the Russians have provided the puppet army with arms and ammunition sufficient for three years. They have also asked the puppet authorities to give them a list of their needs for five years.
 How can we understand this situation? Do the Russians want to bring more arms and leave them for the future Mujahideen Government after their departure? Certainly not. Are they under the illusion that their puppets could last for three or five years without the support of the Red Army? Hopefully not. The Russians' aim in providing so much arms and ammunitions might be to boost the morale of their agents so that they could stay in power for a month or two in order to give the Russians the opportunity to implement their future plots.
 At the political level, the criterion of’Russia's sincerity is their recognition of the Mujahideen and their readiness to talk to them. If the Russians are sincere about withdrawing their troops fro* Afghanistan, they must be concerned with the safety of their troops