Vol 6, No 12	June	15,1990
More than 100 people have died and 400 have been wounded in ethnic clashes in the Soviet Central Asian Republic of Kirghizia since June 4.
The clashes, between the Kirghiz majority and Uzbak minority, erupted over distribution of land. ■
An emergency was declared in Frunze, the capital of Kirghizia, and Moscow sent more troops to control the situation.
The Kirghiz ethnic group forms about half of the population of the republic, estimated about 4 million. Uzbaks form about 12 percent of the population. The remainder are from other nationalities of the Soviet Union.
Soviet media projected the whole issue as an ethnic phenomenon but there, was evidence that riots had a political dimension too. The demonstrators attacked government buildings and raised slogans against the local communist party.
A representative of the Azerbaijan resistance told a member of the Afghan resistance that the Soviet Government had used the issue of nationalities in the past to keep the people divided, but that it was backfiring -now the people use ethnic issues to express their dissatisfaction with the regime.
Thirty people died and 200 sustained injuries in clashes between demonstrators and the Soviet army in
Tajikistan Republic some months ago.
Soviet media blamed outsiders for the riots. Radio Moscow, quoting Pravda, the Communist Party paper, said Pakistan and the CIA wanted to spread Islam and create trouble in Central Asia. The radio said the KGB, Soviet secret police, had taken necessary measures against the nationalist elements in Tajikistan.
A diplomat in the Soviet Embassy in Islamabad has accused Commander Ahmad Shah Masood of sending 20,000 anti-Soviet booklets and 2,000 small arms to the nationalist elements in Tajikistan. Masood has denied this charge.
summit fails
to solve Afghan problem
The - superpower summit in Washington has failed to agree on a formula to solve the problem of Afghanistan.
The main obstacle in the talks was the role of Najibullah, the head of the Kabul regime, in the transitional phase.
Several rounds of talks between American and Soviet officials reduced the gap between the views of the two countries, but could not bring' total agreement
The two sides agree that there should be a political solution. They also think that holding elections is a good way of solving the problem. Both sides feel there should be a transitional period, but they have different views regarding that phase.
For the Soviet Union the transition means observing a cease-fire, cutting off arms to both sides of the conflict, and forming joint Mujahideen and regime bodies to supervise the elections.
The Americans want to see a transfer of power from Najib to a broad-based government before holding elections. This is necessary because the Mujahideen are not prepared to deal with the Kabul regime.	'
When the Kabul regime survived the initial shock of the Soviet troop withdrawal. Kremlin leaders grew hopeful about the future of the regime. They became reluctant to negotiate any
deal in which Najib was not a participant.
In order to give momentum to efforts to find a political solution, America made the first concession by dropping its demand that Najib must go before the begining of any political process to solve the issue. They said Najib should hand overpower to an interim arrangement after the talks have made progress.
Recently the Bush administration made a further concession by saying that it did not object to the participation of Najib and the PDPA in the coming elections. The Mujahideen oppose allowing Najib and his party to participate in the elections.
These concessions did not soften the position of the Soviet Union. Moscow’s inflexible stand is the main reason for the failure of Washington summit to reach an agreement.
The Kabul regime's recent political moves were timed to have an impact on the Washington summit The regime wanted to impress the Americans with these initiatives. The Bush administration, aware of the deep hatred of the Mujahideen towards the Kabul regime, paid no attention. The Americans' attitude angered the regime, which had pinned high hopes on the summit
Kabul misuses UN name
more than 10 million.
Abdullah Shokoor, the head of the UN demining program in Kabul, has praised the role of Soviet Army in clearing some areas of mines.
Shokoor, who is an officer of the regime army, told Radio Moscow that the Soviet Army had defused 337,307 mines planted by the Mujahideen in nine years of their presence in Afghanistan. He said: "We thank the Soviet soldiers who risked their lives to clear the landmines."
He said there were about 200,000 mines, unexploded shells and other explosive devises scattered all over Afghanistan. He estimated the clearing process would take 4,000 experts three years.
Western experts estimate the number of mines planted by the Soviet Army at
The UN Coordinator for Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Programs relating to Afghanistan, Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan, has a mandate to carry out a demining program so that the refugees will be able to return home.
Shokoor said the UN runs demining classes with the help of the regime army. The classes are taught by foreign- and regime experts.
The UN runs a similar program in Pakistan. Despite claims of training thousands of refugees no practical steps have been taken to clear die mines to make them safe for the people and theircattle.
________________________________ J