AFGHANews Vol 5, No 4, February 15,1989, page 5
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Fazlullah
DR. FAZLULLAH, Jami’at commander in Logar province, was bom 30 years ago in a small village called Baba in Baraki iarak District. His father, Abdul lai, was a spiritual man from Vlujaddidi’s family. The people of Logar province respected azlullah's family. His family lelped villagers to learn Holy Quran and understand the basics of Islam.
Fazlullah leamt about religion and how to deal with the people from his father and his elder brothers. His father was solving the local problems much better than the government officers in the district.
Fazlullah went to the primary school in Baraki Rajan and then to a ugh school in the district. "He was a hard-working and talented student He showed great interest in natural sciences." remembered one of Fazlullah's classmates.
He was in the ninth grade in 1973 when his elder brother, Haroon, encouraged him to work with other young students belonging to the Islamic Movement Together they promoted Islamic ideas among the students in school.
Fazlullah entered Medical Faculty of Kabul University in 1976. He was a known activist of the Islamic Movement in Logar province. He met for the first time Prof. Rabbani in late 1976 in Kabul.
Fazlullah was in die second year of the Medical Faculty when the communists seized power through a military coup. He left his studies and came to Peshawar to work for Jami’aL He stayed about one year in Peshawar and went back to Logar. "It was in Du Bandy district that Fazlullah started his military activities against the communist regime. He established the first base of Jamiat in Du BandL" said his representative.
When he was visiting Peshawar, Prof. Rabbani sent him to Zahidan of Iran to work in Jami*at office. He stayed in Zahidan for a short time and returned to Peshawar. Commander Fazlullah went back to Du Bandi in 1980 and since than he has been spending most of his time inside the country.
Commander Fazlullah, known as Dr. Fazlullah, built his organization from scratch. He played a key role in strengthening Jami’at's position in the province. Fazlullah provided a young
and dynamic leadership for members of Jami'at.
Logar province is strategically important Throughout the war Logar was used as the supply route of about 17 provinces of Central and Northern Afghanistan. Logar situated South of Kabul is called the 'gate of Kabul.'
Logar was important to the Soviets too. The road to Paktia province passes through Logar.
The Mujahideen's tasks in Logar were:
(a)	to provide security for the Mujahideen's supply lines
(b)	to cut the supply line of die enemy to Paktia
(c)	and to attack government security posts and garrisons in the province
Besides the military tasks, the Mujahideen had to build a civilian organization to deal with the nonmilitary issues.
Fazlullah did both tasks. His forces were active militarily and he was took deep interest in helping civilian population. He established schools and medical clinics in the area and persuaded hu-
manitarian organization to channel their limited help to the needy people in his area.
He has made an executive council through which he runs his organization and has established committees like agriculture, financial, education, medical and Judicial.
Fazlullah is a political-minded commander. He went all the way to Ghor province to participate in the meeting of Saghar initiated by commander Ismail Khan. He has good relations with all the parties present in Logar. He has also good relations with group commanders active in the South of Kabul. He has close contacts with the commanders from Ghazni, Wardak, Paktia and Paktika. He knows personally Commander Masood of Panjshir and is one of his admirers.
In December 1988, he held a meeting with different Jami'at commanders from Paktia, Paktika, Ghazni, Wardak and South of Kabul. Around 200 commanders and Mujahideen participated in the meeting . The meeting resulted in die creation of a council to help coordinate military activities in the mentioned areas.
Commander Fazlullah is married and has a son and a daughter.
Soviet Muslims denounce official clergy
MORE than 200 muslims demonstrated in Tashkent, the capital of Uzbekistan Republic, in die first week of February to show their displeasure with the behavior of the official clergy in Uzbekistan Republic.
The demonstrators marched from die city Mosque to the center of the town blocking traffic.
According to news agencies, the demonstrators accused the head of the official clergy of drinking Alcohol and having un-Isiamic relation with women.
The Prime Minister of Uzbakistan visited representatives of the demonstrators. The head of the official clergy resigned from his post
Uzbakistan is arepublk in Central Asia whose population is Muslims. Communists suppressed Muslims by bringing their mosques under die state control and appointing clergy to run them.
The state measures to promote atheism and suppress religion foiled. The Islamic revolution in Iran and the war in Afghanistan has given new hopes for the Muslim believers in
Central Aria.
Soviet officials in the past tried to show that they allow religious freedom in the country. They allowed a handful of people to go to Mecca to perform Haj (pilgrimage). A Saudi official in charge of pilgrimage security said that Soviets sent a few individuals to perform Haj. "Year after year the same group of people come to perform Haj.” he said
Movement
From page (6)
the Movement exploited that opportunity.
Id the years of the exile, some ol‘ our friends had gone to meet there families but I always said: "I will not go by the road. I return by the same route (mountains) that I was chased out or my town."
At that time it was just a dream Almighty Allah fulfilled the dream and I returned to Afghanistan through the mountains in 1979.