-------------     AFGHANews	Vol	6,	No	1, January 1,1990, page &
Arifa tells horror stories of regime’s torture of female political prisoners
By: Umar Jessurun
Peshawar, 21st of December, 1989.
Miss Arifa was invited to address a gathering of journalists, foreign aid workers and female school students in a se-ected location in Peshawar to describe her experiences of being jailed by the Kabul regime.
She spoke with clarity and emotion through an interpreter.
This was the first time that a female from the ranks of the "Muslim Sisters Organization of Afghanistan" (MSOA) affiliated to Jami'at Islami has held a press conference,: which indicates the growing' and often hidden role that Mujahideen women are playing in the present war.
Miss Arifa spent two years in the jails known by the names of Dentention Center Khad 9 and Puli Charkhi. She was arrested by the secret police of the Kabul regime as a teenager because of her political associations with the activist group MSOA. During her time in prison she suffered a wide variety of tortures and violations while living under conditions of extreme hardship. Miss Arifa's personal story of survival is symbolic of the extraordinary courage displayed by so many Mujahideen women in their continuing struggle for freedom.
As a youth. Miss Arifa was a successful student at her school in Kabul. However, she became politically aware of the religious, political and social restrictions that the incumbent Communist government was endeavouring, to enforce upon the people of Afghanistan. One day while she was at school, soldiers of the regime marched into the school and made selected girls dance in front of them and their school peers. This act of humiliation was the catalyst for Miss Arifa to join the MSOA as a recourse to protect and fight for her religious rights. She quickly became very active in the organization and over a short period of time recruited 41 men and women to join political organizations campaigning against the communist government. Her work in recruiting and distributing material led to her arrest and subsequent two year imprisonment.
Miss Arifa was first taken to the infamous detention center known as Khad 9. She was placed in a cell compound containing both men and worn
en. Later she was removed to Puli Charkhi, where 80 female political prisoners were confined to quarters resembling a house.
During her confinement at both prisons the living conditions were appalling. The food was beyond normal human consumption but hunger forced the inmates to consume it Miss Arafa mentioned that "cock roaches were often found swimming in the soup, but because we were so hungry we had to eat it”. During the summer the prison was incredibly hot while during winter the interior of the prison quarters was extremely cold. Inmates were allowed just one brief family visit every fifteen days. Parcels and gifts sent to the inmates were invariably tampered with or just never reached their intended destination. All religious rights were taken away resulting in the inmates having to adopt non Islamic attire and not being able to pray at the scheduled five times each day.
One of the most disturbing accounts of Miss Arifa's imprisonment was to learn of the wide spread use of torture and other means of humiliation that were used against female inmates. Miss Arafa stated that "all female prisoners were tortured during their captivity". Types of torture used against Miss Arifa by male guards included electric shocks all over her body, cigarette bums to her breasts, buttocks and arms, regular beatings with sticks, and a barrage of verbal and emotion interrogation. Due to the torture that Miss Arifa received while in prison, she has lost total hearing in one ear and has permanent scarring from the electric shocks and cigarette bums. Miss Arifa
also stated that sexual abuse of the female inmates was wide spread.
On one occasion after Miss Arifa had received electrical shock torture, she suffered acute bleeding in the throat region. Her captives refused her any right to visit a hospital, and she had to wait until a doctor could be brought to the prison to issue medical attention. Prisoners under no circumstances are permitted the right to go to hospital to recieve medical attention. Due to the unbearable living circumstances of the female prisoners, Miss Arifa stated that many inmates have resorted to suicide as the only option to end their plight. This is usually achieved by swallowing needles or cutting ones veins.
Miss Arifa's prison ordeal ended when her captives released her only once she had sworn an oath in front of her parents never to participate in any political or religious activity which is contrary to the regime's ideology.
Two months after Miss Arifa's release from prison, she and her family escaped to the safe haven of Peshawar in Northern Pakistan to join some three million other Afghan refugees living in this region.
Miss Arifa says that there are some 600 female political prisoners kept in secret jails in various locations around territories controlled by the Kabul regime. Each of these prisoners is no doubt living in circumstances where torture and humiliation is a daily feature of their lives, where food is not suitable for human consumption, where religious and individual rights are denied, and where medical services are non existent. These brave women have until Miss Arifa's disclosures, been forgotten victims of the war in Afghanistan.
Please help us publish AFGHANews!
Dear reader,
We have been sending you AFGHANews free for some time. As you know, our resources are shrinking daily and we find we must ask you for help.
If you would like AFGHANews to be published and sent to you, please send your donations to the following account number
JEHAD
Account No. 735-37
Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala
(Jehangirabad) Peshawar- Pakistan