                                                      AIOHANevs Voi No 9, May 1,1986, Page 9
         Young commander restarts fighting with man-made leg
    He star tea to fight the Communists at the age of 15, four years later he lost one of his legs but continued to fight with an artificial leg. His courage and determination is a source of inspiration for niaQy people in the area.
    Gulhaider. 23, started to fight the Communists in 1979. Soon he gained e reputation for courage in action and good manners and turned into a local folk-hero.
    In I9S3 he lost one of his legs In a mine explosion and many people thought it was
the end of nis career as a fighter.
   jamiat and one of his journalist friends helped to give him an artificial limb in J.E Hanger A Co. Ltd. in Roehampton. London.
   He returned back and resumed fighting. He escaped an incident when he and some of his friends were surrounded by Soviet forces in a side valley in Panjshir, His artificial limb proved strong enough to take him across the mountain to a sale valley.
   In 198-i he was chosen as
 the commander of a side-valley inside Panjshir.
    After five years his artificial limb developed a crack so he come out and went to the same hospital to fix a new limb.
    Gulhaider is happy about the performance of his artificial limb and hopes that other amputees who wish to resume fighting should be given the same type of limbs.
    When asked about his plans after fixing his leg he said: '1 am returning soon. I shall try to take with me other Mujahideen who have had left f ighting for one reason or the other. They have promised to return and resume fighting/
    Gulhaider surprised his hosts in London by demanding attuick service so he could return to the battlefield soon.
    Gulhaider is married and has a child.
         Afghans play traditional Buzkashi
                    game in exile
    AIGRAHS have resumed their popular traditional game of Buzkashi with a greater interest and enthusiasm in exile.
    Buzkashi or goat-dragging’ is a game in which two competing teams of skilled horse riders strive to take the carcass of calf from each other and alter riding to a turning point drop it into the winning circles. The one who seizes the carcass running past the sign and drops it into the circle will be the winner,
    Assad ul laii who is the cbief of Aryanateam said in an interview that Buzkashi is the favorite game of the Northern provinces of Afghanistan where the ground and climate are suitable for
 breeding and training horses.
    In order to preserve and practice their traditional game, the refugees from the mentioned provinces lormed two teams called Aryans and Bafchtar,
    “A council of 30 playing members headed by Haji Ebrahim was also set up to organize and supervise the gaaie, Haji Saaduddin, from Panjshir, was appointed as the teams referee/ said Assaduliah.
    Talking about the r ules of Buzkashi, Hail Saaduddin said that the game is played on a plain of 5 garlbs width and the carcass weight must not exceed 30 pounds.
    The playing ground consists of three circles; the middle one for starting and two others are winning
 circles, on either one of which the carcass is dropped. There is also a flag at a corner, a long distance, from the circles around which a rider must make a turn before riding towards the circles to drop the carcass/ said Haj)
    Concerning Buzkashi horses, he said they are well-bred and great attention is paid to their training when they are young.
    Buzkashi players wish to travel abroad and display their riding skills to the Interested people and inform the outsiders about their culture which Is threatened by the Soviet occupation.