RFGKRH HiEliS WJl.itl, HO. 2,         l/i5/‘.C53,  PftGE  3
                                         BURKA GARRISON CAPTURED
 Mujahideen of J.I.A conquered the Burka Garrison io Baghlao province on December 24.1987. In the operation, which lasted only iVw hours, 10 troops of the puppet regime, were killed, 30 were wounded and about 100 were captured
 Mujahideen casualties included U martyrs and 22 injured In the operation Mujahideen seized two tanks, three mortars, eight heavy machinsguns. 60 iigJb t weapons, one RPG-7 rocket launcher, two communication sets and large quantities of ammunition, foodstuffs and other items
 The operation took place under the command of Abdul Hay Haqjo. the general commander of Jassi'at Mujahideen in Baghiaa In. addition to the local Mujahideen, seme units from Nahrin. in central Baghicvc, and Ishkamish tlakhar province) also wok pan in the operation
 The Burka Garrison was located halfway between Kahrin and ishkansish, and was manned by the puppet army and EHAP agents. With the conquest of the Garrison, a great deal of large territory was liberated from the Eafcui regime
                                                 HERAT PROVINCE
 .Under Commander Ismael Khan, Mujahideen {attached a series of attacks against enemy targets in seven districts and around the city of Herat from December. 15 to December 21. In these operations. Mujahideen destroyed nine tanks and APCs and killed or wounded about 60 Russian and puppet regime troops. Some high racking communist officers and party officials were among those killed
 in the operation, sis. Mujahideen were martyred and 13 were wounded. Russian places bombarded civilian population ja retaliation to the attacks The casualties were high, especially in the Pashiaon &,.rg'boos, district.
 The second wave of Mujahideen operations ia Herat began on Dec,2.4 and is Continuing is these operations 8 military posts of the puppet regime's troops, in Baadi Salma of Chesht districts. wera captured.
                                                 LOGAR PROVINCE
 Mujahideen of Barali Barak and Sayed Abad CWardak) launched an attack on Sayed j abaci district headquarters on December 25 The Observation Tower and some other parts of the base were destroyed. Tea, soldiers and three KHAD agents were killed and sins others ware wounded.
 Mujahideen casualties included 4 wounded.
 9/12/1987- Mujahideen of Kulangar fought a one and half hoar battle against heliborne troops who tried to ambush Mujahideen in Shigi 2ora (between Khoshi and Dubandi). Mujahideen were able t» shoot down one of the six helicopters which bombed their positions Other enemy casualties are not available Mujahideen casualties included five martyrs and one seriously wounded
                                                 KABUL PROVINCE
 9/12/1987- Mujahideen under the command of Abdul ShaJwwr penetrated the Security Belt around the Kabul city and launched attacks against the Training Regiment and governmental gasoline depot in Char Asyab at 12:00 am. The enemy suffred losses in tna a and material, but further details were aoi available