RfGHRH HEUS UOL.III, HO.9, 1/5/ I9B7 PROE 7
This decision is against the spirit of the resolutions of the NAM in which the right for self-determination by the people of Afghanistan is emphasized. If the present regime in Kabul were legal and popular what was the need for including the item of "the right for self-determination” in the UN, NAM and Islamic Conference resolutions.
Soviet economic and military aid for Zimbabwe can be a factor. Non-aligned countries must be sad to have a leader who barter support for a puppet regime with aid from an invader. Cuba supported aggression, India kept silent about it and Zimbabwe is trading on it.
                                           TREATMENT OF POWS
Proper treatment of the prisoners is an humanitarian matter which the resistance isf fully 8ware of . Being Muslims, Afghans step out of reciprocity principles and treat their prisoners well The resistance has captured both Soviet and puppet soldiers and
officers.
Soviet Prisoners
The number of Soviets captured by the resistance compared to the puppet troops is very small. Soviet prisoners are treated in an exceptional way. They are fed well and never forced to say something they do not want to say. In short, they are treated like guests. This type of treatment has had its effect and some of the captured Soviet soldiers have decided to stay with the Mujahideen and have even accepted Islam as their religion. In some cases Soviet prisoners have misused the freedom they were given and escaped back to their units and passed information they had got to their officers But these cases did not change the good treatment of the prisoners by the Mujahideen. Some Soviet prisoners have been given to the Red Cross-(without the Mujahideen receiving in return ) and some found their way to the Vest. This way of unilateral treatment will continue in the future.
The Soviets on the Other hand treat Mujahideen and civilian prisoners badly. U9e of torture and all sorts of deprivation is common in prisons in the Soviet occupied areas.While the Soviets are aggressors and their soldiers fight in a foreign land against local people for no good reason, still the Mujahideen treat them well. Vhile we are victims they are treating our prisoners badly. The difference between the two is as much as the difference between aggression and self-defense.
Puppet Prisoners
Puppet prisoners are divided into the following categories:
1 - Spies
KHAD sends hundreds of spies, men, women and even children. Women and children are delivered back to their relatives after getting assurance that they will not repeat their actions. Those children who do not have parents are sent to Pakistan to be educated in the Orphanages run by the Mujahideen.
Men spies are tried. In most cases they will be tried properly. The judges of the Mujahideen are usually God-fearing Islamic scholars who pay close attention the specific conditions of each case.
2-  Ordinary Soldiers
The conscripts are immediately released. They will be helped to join their families.
3- Officers
Non-communist officers who were fighting because they were soldiers will be forgiven. The communist members, who are generally criminals will be tried.