AFGHANews Vol 7, No 22, November 15,1991, page 0
•v
; J f a \	\
H

Editorial
]
A timely victory!
The liberation of Dawlatabad district and dozens of villages in Balkh district, after Mujahideen victories during the summer in Badakhshan and Takhar, offers proof that the military situation in this vital area continues to evolve in favor of the resistance.
The Mazar victory, which cost few casualties, displayed the maturity of the Mujahideen's local military organization. Careful preparation and professional execution of the battle plan overcame the chronic ammunition shortages which plague the resistance near Mazar.
Balkh and Daulatabad are located near the Soviet border. The Kabul regime's overland supply route from the USSR, which bears military supplies, food and fuel to the capital, passes nearby. After Kabul, Mazar is the regime's second most important political and military center.
The Mujahideen captured a great deal of arms and ammunition in the operation, an important bonus in an area where military supplies have always been hard to come by. These spoils will be used in future attacks.
The Mujahideen won in Balkh and Daulatabad partly because the Kabul regime's hands were full in Jalalabad and Gardez. The resistance can gain further ground by continuing to launch simultaneous attacks bn widely separated enemy targets.
Significantly, the Mujahideen seized control of these areas while Jami'at leader Ustaz Burhanuddin Rabbani was leading a resistance delegation to Moscow, to try to convince the Soviets to end their support for the illegitimate Kabul regime. The events near Mazar validate the resistance's stance on a peace settlement. The mujahideen must maintain pressure on the regime by means of armed struggle even while negotiating for a political solution.
We need fair politics
The motives of former king Zaher Shah's would-be assassin remain unknown, but Jami'at Islami condemns this misdeed regardless of its motives. All the Mujahideen parties have denied involvement.
The timing of the attempt strengthens speculation that it was meant to prevent Zahir Khan from playing any further role in the politics of Afghanistan.
Kabul's ruler, a KGB-trained expat at deception, charged that the Mujahideen undertook the attack to sabotage the so-called peace process. This allegation received great attention in the international media, even though Najib is the Mujahideen's sworn enemy and could be expected to exploit the murder attempt in this manner, whether or not there was any troth to the accusation.
Although the ex-king's close relatives have avoided accusing particular individuals and organizations of involvement in the attack, some individuals and parties who support the return of the former king to power have wrongly repeated Najib's allegations. It would have been to their own benefit and that of the Jehad if they had waited for the outcome of the Italian police investigation.
Attacking rivals with lies is just as bad as using violence to achieve political goals. Islam forbids Muslims to spread rumors and false allegations. Accusing any party of such a crime without proof is a great sin.
sThe Italian police have captured the culprit Sooner or later, the truth will come to light When the culprit's motives are revealed and his friends, if any, are made known, Jami'at will not hesitate to condemn those involved. But the accusations leveled by Zahir Shah supporters against those whom they label as extremists are politically motivated.
While Jami’at does not support a political role for the former king, it strongly opposes the use of force against any Afghans other than the Soviet puppets in Kabul. .	.
Swiss scholar fails to reach Masood
Swiss scholar Paul Bucherer-Dietschi. who has been trying to act as a mediator in the Afghan conflict, has left Kabul for home after the Kabul regime backtracked on promises that he could meet resistance commanders.
Mr. Bucherer-Dietschi, SO, had been promised a helicopter to fly him to a meeting with Ahmad Shah Masood.
At the last minute, senior Afghan officials refused him the facility and withdrew permission for the Swiss mediator to travel outside Kabul.
He flew to New Delhi on his way home, aiding a 12-day visit during which he met with members of the Soviet-backed government of Najibullah.
Republics ask for fresh power deal
Electric power transmission from the Soviet Union to Kunduz and Mazar cities in Afghanistan was suspended after the coup in Moscow. The authorities in the republics of Tajikistan and Uzbekistan have told Kabul to strike a new deal with them, if it wanted to keep buying electricity from the republics.
Partymen oppose Najib's leadership
Najib has been facing increased opposition from within the ruling Watan (formerly People's Democratic) Party because of his dictatorial style of leadoship, a western journalist reported from Kabul, quoting sources within the party.
His opponents on the party’s Central Committee say Najib rules like a dictator and that he is not likely to change. They believe that the major problem facing the country is die continuation of the war, and they say Najib is not making enough concessions to the regime's opponents.
Observers, however, say Najib's opponents share two shortcomings: the lack of a charismatic leader arid a lack of credibility in the eyes of Afghans because they have held important positions within the party and the government
Some former members of the ruling party have formed an association called "The Movement for independence and Democracy".

4