-  ——--------- AFGHANews	Vol	6,	No 2,	January 15,1990, page @
r	■	■	"	;	""	”	*
News
From the battlefields
Herat province
On December 27, Jami’at Mujahideen attacked security posts around the city of Herat . They killed 94 militiamen and seven officers, and captured six soldiers. They also destroyed eight enemy post, two tanks, two vehicles and six heavy weapon. The Mujahideen seized 12 guns, Three Mujahideen were killed and seven were wounded.
On December 26, the Mujahideen in Enjeel district repulsed an enemy attack. Tanks and planes supported the enemy troops. The enemy retreated after losing 85 people. Enemy retaliatory shelling of the villages killed three Mujahideen and wounded two.
On December 23, Mujahideen fired rockets on the headquarters of Herat Army Corps, killing six soldiers. On the same date, the Mujahideen killed three militiamen when they attacked a militia post near the city. 1
On December 19, one soldier and one officer wane killed and their jeep destroyed when Mujahideen attacked them with machine gun fire inside the city of Herat.
In two different Mujahideen mortar attacks on Decemberl6 and 17 in -the city of Herat, two enemy officers were killed.
On December 15, Jami'at Mujahideen killed 13 enemy soldiers by firing rockets on government posts close to the city of Herat They also fired ground-to-ground rockets on the headquarters of the regime secret police (WAD), killing four.
On December 14, four soldiers were killed when the Mujahideen fired rockets on the headquarters of the Herat Army Corp.
On December 11, one enemy tank
was destroyed and an unknown number of enemy soldiers were killed or wounded near Roodkaz bridge, about three kilometers from Adraskan, when Mujahideen attacked their post
On December 10, five enemy soldiers were killed when the vehicle carrying them hit a land mine planted by the Mujahideen in Khwaja Gulpush area.
Balkh province
Jami'at Mujahideen blocked the Mazar-Shiberghan highway for two days beginning December 30.
They destroyed one tank, one armored car, two trucks and captured two soldiers. Two Mujahideen were wounded in the operation.
As a result of retaliatory shelling of Mujahideen-controlled villages, 20 houses were destroyed.
In Seyagird village near Mazar-i-Sharif, Jami'at Mujahideen on December 29 captured an enemy post and seized 13 guns and one 82mm mortar.
Twenty one people have been killed and 7 injured by two SCUD missiles fired by the Communist regime of Dr. Najibullah in Keshm district, Badakhshan province.
The Mujahideen think that the missiles were fired from Mazar-i-Sharif close to the Soviet border.
One of the missiles hit a mosque school killing three students and a teacher.
The teacher was Maulawi Abdur Rahim, a prominent Islamic scholar and the leader of the Ulama organization in Keshm.
The second missile hit the residential quarters of the town killing 17 people and injuring seven. Several houses were also destroyed.
Kandahar province
The MIDIA office in Quetta reported that a bloody clash between Esmat Muslim's militias and the military police of the Kabuljegime inside the city of Kandahar had claimed many lives on both sides.
In the past, a nufnber of such clashes have occurred between the two rival groups. Both groups used heavy machine guns and small arms.
Esmat Muslim, a resident of Kandahar, was once a Mujahideen commander. Since joining die Kabul regime some years ago, he has been active against the Mujahideen in Kandahar and other places. He is a notorious gun-runner whose followers create problem for the people of Kabul; on one occasion they clashed with the security forces of the regime in Kabul, resulting in Esmat's being wounded. Esmat has had close links with the Soviets. He was treated in the Soviet Union for his injuries.
Kabul province
In the first week of January, an enemy truck was destroyed on the Paghman road. Communist forces shelled Paghman, killing three civilians and wounding two Mujahideen.
Parwan province
On December 23, communist artillery heavily shelled residential areas in Munara village in Jabulseraj. Fifteen civilians were killed and 11 were injured.
This was the third time that Keshm has been hit by SCUD missiles. In the two previous cases nobody was killed or wounded.
The Mujahideen from Keshm say that firing of SCUD missiles on Keshm started after Ahmad Shah Masood and the commanders from Badakhshan held a meeting in Keshm to discuss their future course of action against the enemy.
Most of the important commanders of Badakhshan including Basir Khalid and Aryanpoor had participated in that meeting.
Keshm which is located on Taloqan-Faizabad road was liberated by Commander Aryanpoor's Mujahideen after the Soviet troops left Afghanistan last February.
SCUDs kill 27 people in Keshm