AFGHANews Vol5, No 8, April 15,1989, page
Glimpses into the historical background of	Part	(2)
The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
Memoirs of Dr. Tawana
In 1961, I graduated from the Faculty of Shariat and was appointed assistant lecturer at the same faculty. My job as assistant lecturer continued until mid-1964. Since we did not have many full professors and because of my professors' favorable views towards me, however, I had the opportunities of full lectureship during those years. That gave me the chance to intensify my anti-communist activities.
I would criticize the economic and philosophic views of materialism and compare diem with Islamic teachings. I would also answer the inquiries of Muslim youth and try to remove doubts and difficulties created in their minds by the communists.
My anti-communist activities went on inside the classroom and outside. What proved very helpful in my task was the fact that the university dormitory authority requested me to live in the dormitory of the students of the Faculty of Shariat Thus I was with the students day and night and tried my best to help them .
The meetings of our circle continued irregularly. The reason was government's opposition to the meetings and gatherings for religious purposes.
Leftist parties however could carry on their activities without much fear because they enjoyed Baud's support. He was the prime minister then. They also received substantial financial assistance from Russia.
Baud's connection with the communists was disclosed when he was removed from the prime ministership and a new constitution was drafted. The new constitution banned the King's relatives—including Baud and his brother Naim—from holding high official positions. The communists raised their voice in support of Baud, considering die constitutional provision an injustice to him. Tension between the communists and the government was increasing every day.
Enmity between the communists and the Muslims was also on the rise. With the passage of time, each side became more committed to its views and beliefs. Communist hatred of the Muslim activists, and of the university professors and students in particular, had reached the point where they considered diem to be aliens and parasites! Shamelessly they would tell Muslim activists that soon Afghanistan would become a communist country under the
leadership of the Soviet Union. Our response was- that, God willing, before Russia could turn Afghanistan communist, it would disintegrate and the colonized Muslim territories would gain their independence.
In foil 1964,1 went to Egypt for higher education in Al-Azhar University. Before me, my martyred brother Wafiullah Sameie had gone there. Brother Burhanuddin Rabbani joined us a little while later. We three worked together for the cause of Islam and for Islamic organization in Afghanistan. We were in constant contact with our brothers in the country and received news of constructive and destructive activities going on there.1
Life in Cairo and relations with the Muslim Brotherhood:
Before I went to Egypt, two groups Qf Afghan students were present in Al-Azhar University. One was a Muslim students' group under the leadership of the martyred Brother Wafiullah Sameie, and the other one was that of die communists under the leadership of Mohammad Siddiq Sailani. Differences between the two groups had reached their peak over the issue of forming an Afghan students' association and drafting its charter. Each group wanted the charter to reflect its viewpoints and
Naturally 1 joined the Muslim brothers. After Wafiullah Sameie returned to Afghanistan, I assumed the leadership of the group despite my unwillingness. After Brother Burhanuddin Rabbani and Brother Sayyaf came to Al-Azhar, the situation changed in favor of die Islamic movement.
I studied in Al-Azhar from 1964 to 1971.1 got my Masters degree in Fiqh (jurisprudence) methodology and Fiqh history and a PhD, in Fiqh methodology. In addition to my studies, I spent most of my time in Cairo in service of die Islamic movement.
I had great love and respect for the Ikhwan Al-Muslemoon (Muslim Brotherhood). I never joined die society as a member however. My relationship was limited to low ranking Ikhwan inembers on the basis of personal friendship. Some of my fiends requested me to meet some other members of Ikhwan. My response was that we were also moving along the same path; I belonged to the Islamic society and did not want to join another society.
During purges and persecution by-Abdul Naser's government, many Egyptian and foreign students burned books written by Ikhwan scholars. I however retained my collection of Ikhwan books. I even dared to defend the Society among the students. Thus I became known as ah "flchwani" (a member of the Muslim Brotherhood) among the Afghans in Cairo. Even Afghanistan embassy officials used that tide for me. When I was about to return to my homeland, an embassy member had remarked, "Another Ikhwani returns to Afghanistan!"
Actually the communists in Afghanistan used to try to associate every Muslim activist with Ikhwan. They believed the Ikhwan to be a reactionary and pro-capitalist movement and considered its members despicable.
As noted above, the Islamic movement in Afghanistan originated from the Faculty of Shariat, Kabul University, without dependence on any other movement outside the country. What gave rise to the Movement was the deep faith of the Afghan people, who have a long history of great services to Islam.
It is true that some teachers of the Darul-Uloom Sharia Madrasa in the 1940s used to be members of Ikhwan Muslemoon—e.g. Jamal Ammar. They could not have any political activities, however, because the administrator of the Madrasa was related to the royal fomily and had banned any political activity.
It may also be claimed that Prof. Ghulam Mohammad Niazi, who is considered the founder of the Islamic Movement in Kabul University, had
been influenced by the Ikhwan movement during his stay in Egypt.
One should remember however that our work had progressed to a certain extent before his return. Moreover the brothers of the Islamic Movement in Afghanistan did not follow the methods of Ikhwan in organization and. training. The books we studied were also not limited to those of Ikhwan. We studied books written by Pakistani and Iranian scholars, without' becoming their followers.
Activists of the Islamic Movement in the Faculty of Shariat gathered around Prof. Niazi alter his return only because of their respect for his. scholarly status and his services to Islam.