AFGHANews Vol7, No 18, September 15,1991, page 0
Swedes ask Moscow to end aid to Kabul
[The following letter addressed to the Presidents of the Soviet Union and Russia has been signed by a group of Swedish members of parliament representing all parties in the Swedish Parliament. The letter is distributed by the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan to media, in Soviet Union and the Baltic States.]
Open letter to Boris Yeltsin/ Mikhail Gorbachev:
The news that the leaders of the coup in Moscow had fled was greeted with relief by the world. The attempt to oust Mikhail Gorbachev and suffocate glasnost and people's longing for freedom with violence has failed.
In Moscow, the populace had successfully defended their freedom against the junta's attempt to take power. They defended their right to self-determination, and not only in Russia, but also in the Baltic republics and in the rest of Europe there were sighs of relief.
In this moment of joy, when Balts and Russians celebrate their great victory, we should not forget that even the people of Afghanistan have right to self-determination, the same right as the peoples of the Soviet Union.
But, more than two years after the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan, the Soviet Union continues to give its support to Kabul.
There, supported by Soviet weaponry, a group of men cling to power against the will of the people. These men wage war against their own people with the weapons that the Yanayev-junta, for a few days, looked like turning against the people of the Soviet Union. They are guilty of the murder of thousands of their Afghan compatriots, women and children.
As long as these men remain in power with the Soviet support, the millions of Afghans who were forced into exile on account of the Soviet occupation, are forced to stay in refugee camps in neighboring countries where they have now lived for almost a decade. As long as the Soviet Union supplies the men in Kabul with bombs and Scud missiles, they will continue to bombard villages and cities, thereby creating a permanence of what is the largest refugee catastrophe in the world.
The Soviet government carries a
heavy responsibility for this war of the junta against the people of Afghanistan continuing in the shadow of other crisis and conflicts. It continues to support the coup leaders in Kabul with weapon supplies and military advisors.
But now military and political support to the junta in Kabul has to ceased!
President Yeltsin, who refused to give way to the leaders of the coup in Moscow, has previously declared that Russia will not have anything to do with this Afghan adventure.
We now exhort him to do everything to win over President Gorbachev to this sensible and honorable policy!
We appeal directly to President Gorbachev:
Now that the reactionary forces in the Soviet Union have suffered a defeat, terminate, without and more delay, the involvement in Afghanistan and leave Afghanistan in peace at last!
Listen to the Afghan's cry for freedom and peace, listen to world-wide opinion which demands that they too, regain their right to self-determination!
Terminate all support to die Kabul junta!
Per Gahrton, MP., The Green Party
Bo Hammar, M.P., The Left Party
Ingbritt Irhammar, MP., The Center Party
Inger Koch, MP., The Moderate Party
Maria Leissner, MP., The Liberal Party
Bengt Silfverstrand, M.P., The Social Democratic Party
The Swedish Committee for Afghanistan is a volunteer orgqaniza-don which was founded in 1980 to support the struggle of the Afghan people for freedom and independence.
The Committee has currently 23,000 members and contributors to its fund-raising campaign, the Swedish Aid for Afghanistan. The board of the Committee has representatives from all major Swedish parties.
The Committee carries out extensive humanitarian aid within Afghanistan in the fields of health, education and agriculture. The turnover in 1990 was 70 millions Swedish Kronor (Le. approx. 12 million US dollars).
| Ahmad Shah Masood and senior Jami’at commanders from [Badakhshan held a meeting in Kishm I District at the beginning of I j September to discuss the military sit-1 nation in that province.	I
Commander Sayyed Najmuddin, I Commander Aryanpoor and represen-1 tative of Commander Abdul Bask I Khalid were among those who took I I part tn the meeting.	I
The Kabul regime war planes] continued to bomb Kishm during the] three days of talks causing casualties] itiong the civiliau population.
More than 12000 Afghan refugee] families have returned their ration cards to the UNHCR officials since! | the launching of the UN repatriation! | program me of the Afghan refugees ud | July 1990, a UNHCR offieersaid. ■
I	#•* I
I An Afghan employed in a dem-
confr*ence
,ni«d by Al-Aahar University oo ] August23 in Cairo. Delegations from] ttUBty Islamic countries took part in ;tfi^pSdbre^ which disraastod i$y
a theMuctim workLsl; '4-
Consultant {ATC) has been murdered j in Urgnn District, Paktika Province. The identity and motive of the taller j Ure not known.	f	I
1	-	I

mmmrn
iliphalist party, was killed b| un> known assassins in a refugee cspirp in Kotat District on September 7. Taj Mohammad:: Khan, 35, secretary of the party fa Koh# in his shop in the Oblan refugees! camp.	,	■ W- m
1§»•W mm
Kayhal Tht^atiotpf'an Ir^an] paper, has calledfto dre%liminatk>n| of Gulbuddmg Tfikmatyar in one of its recent editorials. The paper ac-j cused Htkrhatyar of harming Iehad| more than Russians and the communist regime in Kabul*! The article caused a sharp reaction from Hezb
Mujahideen leaders* Relations be|
'm