AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, -April 15,1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Mir Alam
Mir Alam,39, is one of the main Jami'at commanders in Kunduz Province who leads more than 1,000 armed Mujahideen near the city of Kunduz. He is famous for his military operations against the Soviet and the Kabul regime's forces and provision of security for the people living under his control.
He has taken part in numerous operations and has been wounded four times. Here are the accounts of a few of his operations:
He played an important role in the liberation of the Kunduz city in the Summer of 1988. Soviet troops had left the city. The Mujahideen of Mir Alam launched an attack against an enemy post. The quick fall of the post tempted them to continue fighting which led to the fall of other post and surrender of enemy units. The Mujahideen belonging to other parties also joined the fighting when they saw that the victory was close.The Kabul regime recaptured the city after one week with the help of Soviet air force. Since the Mujahideen had not planned the liberation of Kunduz, some people indulged in looting of the town. The Mujahideen tried to stop them but did not succeed.
In 1990, the Kabul regime launched a massive attack to dislodge Mir Alain’s Mujahideen from'the areas close to the road connecting Kunduz with Shir Khan Bander on the Soviet border. In two weeks of fighting the regime was only able to capture one village-and one small hill after suffering heavy casualties.
In 1983, Mir Alam repulsed a Soviets attack destroying seven tanks and killing 20 Soviet soldiers. Seventeen Mujahideen, including Commander Taza Khan, were martyred in this operation..
Commander Mir Alam controls 40 villages in northeast of the Kunduz city. The area is very fertile and populated. A dirt road, connecting Kunduz with Khanabad District, passes through this area. Despite presence of a- metal road between Kunduz and Khanabad, merchant prefer to use the dirt road be-
cause it is secure and Mujahideen do not collect tolls from vehicles using the road.
Mir Alam began Jehad immediately after the April coup of 1978. He left his job as a mechanic and joined the Mujahideen. Since Kunduz was under control of the communists, he and some of his friends went to Andarab and Nahrin in Baghlan > Province where the Mujahideen had began an armed struggle. He later joined Harakat-i-Inqilab of Mohammadi political party and fought under Amir Ghulam. Their base was located in Foloul, Burka sub-District from where they launched operations in and around the city of Kunduz.
Amir Ghulam was killed in an internal clash in 1987 and its place was taken by his deputy. Commander Sarwar. When Sarwar was killed in fighting with the Soviet troops some weeks later, the Mujahideen appointed Mir Alam as their leader.
Mir Alam consolidated his position quickly. Jamaluddin, his representative in Peshawar, said Mir Alam learned from the mistakes of his predecessors and tried to correct them. He established fixed centers, Qarargahs, for his Mujahideen where they were provided with meal. Before that, the Mujahideen were fed by the local people. It was a burden on the local people and harmful to the dignity of the Mujahideen. He began to spend the tax collected from the people to support his Mujahideen. These measures and fighting against the enemy made him popular among the people.
Mir Alam has good relations with the commanders from other groups and has not been involved in internal fighting with other Mujahideen.
Due to problems within Harakat, he has not been able to receive enough weapons from abroad. But he has captured five armored cars and tanks, seven howitzers and many other weapons which he has been using them against the Kabul regime.
Mir Alam began to cooperate with
(I
To page (8)
' Prot Ludwig , Adamec* • m several books on Afghanistan, told
; Soviets artd|thb:	regime
^	.	i .K^hhad,^\inin, on
February 9. The exMbitioh,organized
:x:
||ned in Islamabad on March 26 be-
