AFGHANews Vol 6, No 10, May 15,1990, page Q
Editorial
Minor changes in Kabul desinged to improve Najibullah's image
The Kabul regime has initiated, some political maneuvers, since lifting the state of emergency, to improve its image inside and outside Afghanistan. These political moves have been backed by military actions launched in several parts of Afghanistan.
The state of emergency, imposed in February 1989 after the Soviet troop withdrawal, was lifted on May 2. Meanwhile the Kabul regime announced formation of a "Loya Jirga" to revise the regime’s constitution. After that, a congress of the PDPA will be formed to introduce some changes in the party program. These steps will pave the way for the participation of some other groups in the government to give it an image of a multi-party system.
Some of the parties planned to joined the regime have already been formed, and others will be formed in the future. Among them Najib has permitted the formation of a party called Hizbullah (the party of God). It is not known who is the leader of this so-called Islamic party and who are its members.
Other parties which have already been formed are leftist groups which were once part of the PDPA, and had cooperated with the Soviets during the occupation of Afghanistan.
These steps have been taken at a time when the positions of the two superpowers are converging toward a solution of the Afghan issue by holding general elections.
The only sticking point is disagreement over the role of Najib during elections.
A senior US State Department official, Mr. Kimitt, has said that the US government is not opposed to the participation of Najib in the election. This is a major concession to the Kabul regime.
The Mujahideen have said they will not agree to the participation of Najib and his party in the elections.
Afghanistan will be a topic of discussion in Moscow between the Soviet and US foreign ministers in Moscow when they meet from 16 to 19 May. Soviet and US leaders will also discuss Afghanistan in their five-day summit in Washington which will start on May 30.
The Mujahideen leaders discussed the election option with the-president and prime minister of Pakistan on April 22. They are working to formulate their response to the proposal. A spokesman of the Mujahideen interim government rejected the press reports that the Mujahideen leaders have decided to abandon military actions in favor of a political solution.
To draw the sympathy of the US to its political initiatives, Najib passed an anti-drug law at the time when he announced his political program. In an interview with an American paper he asked for American help to fight drugs and to treat drug addicts.
Regime anti-drug moves come at a time when the Western media is publishing long stories about some Mujahideen commanders' involvement in poppy cultivation. The ploy is designed to mislead public opinion in the West about the true situation in Afghanistan, and turn them against the resistance. ;
The Kabul regime has backed up its political moves with selective military operations. Attempts to send a supply convoy to Kandahar, operations in Logar and attacks against the Mujahideen in Jalalabad are designed to show that the regime has emerged stronger from the March 6 Tanai coup attempt and the Mujahideen attack in Herat one month later.	.	'
The official spokesman of the AIG said the Mujahideen will not be satisfied with anything less than the transfer of power from the PDPA,
While most Afghans agree with die AIG statement^ they expect to see concrete political and military steps by the AIG to counter the regime's designs.
WAD activities against Pakistan show a decline
A US State Department reports on global terrorism says that sabotage activities of WAD, the Kabul regime secret police, against Pakistan have shown a decrease in 1989.
There were 16 terrorist bombings and two armed attacks attributable to WAD in 1989, reflecting a downward trend in WAD's operations inside Pakistan since the second half of 1988.
WAD conducted 118 terrorist operations against targets in Pakistan in 1988.
The pullout of Soviet forces from Afghanistan probably forced the Kabul regime to redirect WAD's manpower away from external operations, to counter the insurgency inside Afghanistan, the report says.
The other reason for the decrease , according to the report, is the closure of border infiltration routes into Pakistan by the Mujahideen. Prior to the Soviet troop withdrawal, regime forces withdrew to heavily defended urban areas, allowing the resistance to take control of the areas along the Pak-Afghan border.
WAD nevertheless has retained capability to conduct terrorist operations against Afghan targets inside Pakistan.
Dr. Najib appoints Vice President, PM
Najib has appointed Sultan Ali Keshtmand as the vice president of the regime, and Fazel Haq Khaliqyar as prime minister.
Keshtmand had served as prime minister of the regime sirice the withdrawal of Soviet troops in February 1989. He is a Hazara and longtime member of the Parcham faction of the PDPA.
- Khaliqyar, who earlier served as governor of Herat, was seriously injured when the Mujahideen attacked a political rally one month ago in Pushtoon Zarghoon district
Khaliqyar, who claims not be a member of the PDPA, had succeeded in turning some ex-Mujahideen into militias in Herat.