AFGHANews Vol 6, No ll, June 1, 1990, page ©
Wisdom of the sages
ap—^
Saint prays for oppressor
A darwesh, who never prayed in vain, made his appearance at Baghdad. Hajaj Yousuf sent for him, and said, "Offer up a prayer for me." The darwesh said, "O! God take away his life." Hajaj asked, "For God’s sake what kind of prayer is this?" The darwesh answered, "It is a salutary wish for yourself and for all Moslems." He continued, "O! thou powerful wretch, who oppressest the weak, how long will this violence continue? Of what use is thy government? It is better that thou shouldst die, because thou art an oppressor of mankind."
When sleep is better than worship
A
A certain tyrannical king asked a religious man, "What kind of devotion will be most meritorious for me to perform? He replied. "That you sleep at noon, because in that one moment you will not oppress mankind." When I saw a tyrant sleeping at noon, I said, "He is a tyrant. It is best that he should be overcome with sleep. He who is better asleep than awake, death is preferable to such an evil life."
Shoora builds in northern
The reconstruction Committee of the North-East Zone of the Supervisory Council (SC) has helped in the reconstruction of the country by giving assistance to farmers for construction and repair of irrigation channels and roads.
The Committee provided free seed and fertilizer to 2500 poor farmers in different parts of the zone last year. It also formed a number of farms in Farkhar and Taliqan in which seedlings of fruit trees and improved wheat seed are grown for distribution among the farmers.
• The Committee has started fighting against plant diseases on an experimental basis. It tries to persuade the farmers to grow different types of vegetables to improve the quality of the people's diet
The Reconstruction Committee is working on a number of irrigation projects and surveying some others.
Seventy percent of the work on the irrigation channel of Sangi-Aatash in Farkhar has been completed and work on the Tarisht-Worsaj irrigation project has made 50 percent progress.
The committee has repaired Worsaj-Taliqan road and work for the repair of Taliqan-Keshm road has started.
Engineers of the committee are busy surveying a number of roads in Kunduz, Takhar and Baghlan provinces, and when funds are available the
roads, canals Afghanistan
construction work will begin. On com pletion of these projects the local popu lation will benefit from easy and cheap vehicular transportation.
The committee plans to build a lev ee in Namakab valley to protect the food salt mine in that valley.
An official of the committee told Hindukush News Agency that if funds were available, with present trained staff the committee could do- much more in both agriculture and construction fields.
The work of the committee has given new hope to the people who have suffered in the last twelve years of war.
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
4^ Su jfK i C
'■^***1 o* j* O*
No one says his own buttermilk is sour.
Meaning: No one advertises his own faults.
i 4^ LJuwwJ I tUULa ✓ SjtyLt jLLa 4^ <4J
Good perfume is known by its own scent rather than by the perfumer's advertisement.
Meaning: A good tree is known by its fruit; or, the proof of the pudding is in the eating.
■vo*1
Poor iron won't make a sharp sword. .
Meaning: You caitt get quality out of inferior raw material.
iS3 4-*-^ (£J w) <> 4j
Where there is discipline there is so rial order.
Meaning: Spare the rod and spoil the child; or, a pet lam makes a cross ram.


Narrated Abl Htiraira:
him) said, " Both hi this world and
■
in the Hereafter. I am
warn
HPPI
brothers; their mothers are differ- i
L	i
J V
I ■
ent, but their religion is one
!« * \
