Vol 6, No 14
US, Soviet Ministers to discuss Afghan issue in Paris
US and Soviet foreign ministers might discuss the Afghan issue on July 18 in Paris. The two foreign ministers agreed in their meeting in Berlin on June 22 that the Soviet Union and American experts should meet before the Paris meeting in Washington to discuss the problem. But for somfe unknown reasons the meeting of the experts has been postponed for two weeks.
US Foreign Minster James Baker told Congress on June 13 that only "very, very narrow differences" separate the two sidds on the Afghanistan issue.
Both sides agree on a transitional period and holding elections to solve the issue but differ on the role of Najibullah in the transitional phase.
The meeting of the experts in Washington might discuss details of the transitional phase.
The US is in contact with Pakistan and Saudi Arabia about the issue and the US special envoy to the Afghan Resistance came to Peshawar to inform the Mujahideen leaders about the Washington summit. But the US contact with the Mujahideen is on the level of an exchange of views.
There are differences of views be-about the participation of Najib in the
proposed elections. All the Mujahideen
groups are opposed to the participation
of the ruling party in the elections.
The US on the other hand has said it is not opposed to the participation of Najibullah and his party in elections. The Mujahideen find the US position contradictory to what that country did in the case of Nazis. The US did not permit Nazis to take part in the West Germany elections after World War II because of their role in the war. In the eyes of the Resistance, Najibullah and his party are worse than Nazis, because they are responsible for the killing of more than a million of their own people.
July 15,1990
Afghan scholars recommend new body, fresh strategy to topple Najib regime
A group of Afghan scholars who came to Peshawar at the invitation of the AIG has proposed the formation of a new political system for the opponents of the regime and adoption of a new strategy to solve the Afghan issue.
More than 20 scholars and ranking officers of the former king who live in exile, met in Peshawar from June 16 to 30 to advise the AIG about ways of getting out of the present stalemate situation.
In their proposal, presented to the AIG president, they called the present situation very sensitive, needing a new strategy. The proposal said besides the continuation of the armed struggle against the Kabul regime the Resistance needs to pay attention to the political aspects of the war.
The proposal criticized the AIG because of its failure to: move its headquarters into Afghanistan; to topple the Kabul regime and to bring all the resistance groups into its fold. It stresses the need for a new political situation and a new strategy to get rid of the Kabul regime and establish a representative mation of a body to represent all Afghans opposed to the Kabul regime is recommended.
The proposal says if the AIG agrees with such a change, they are ready to work for the creation of the new political system.
The delegation has asked the AIG to express its views about the proposal within a month.
Although the proposal is not very clear about an alternative to the present political system, the members of the delegation have revealed their way of thinking about the future by talking to the media.
They want that a council from the representatives of all Mujahideen par-
ties, some people in Kabul and the officials of the former government should be formed . The council should meet in a neutral country and give shape to the new strategy.
The members of the delegation have favored the formation of a neutral government for a transitional period. The transitional period is estimated up to three years. The transitional government should be formed from people who are neither with the Kabul regime nor with the Mujahideen.
Such a government should pave the way for elections. They have not re jected the participation of the Kabul regime elections.
They believe such a setup will be acceptable to the Soviet Union and Najib will be forced to accept it because it can not survive without the Soviet support.
The delegation met with the members of the AIG Cabinet, leaders of the political parties, some commanders and a group of Ulamas.
A group of students staged a demonstration in front or the Hotel where they stayed. They raised anti-American and anti-Zahir Shah slogans. The dem onstration was organized by Hezb
It seems that the proposal of the delegation is not acceptable to most of the Mujahideen parties within and out side the AIG.
The proposal makes some people believe that the delegation wants to bring Zahir Shah to power.
A group of UlamaS have criticizec the invitation of former officials to visit Peshawar because they identify them with the policies that led to the communist take over in Afghanistan.
The members of the delegation have returned home waiting for the AIG formal response. The AIG cabinet met discussed the proposal and found no specific solution of the problem in it.