AFGHAN NEWS VOL, HI, NO. 15&16, 15/8/87 PAGE 6
                   LOGAR PROVINCE
1/7/87, Mujahideen of Jamiat islarai under the command of Ahmadullah Hasanzada and Mujahideen of Mawlawi khalis' Hizb Islami under the command of Mia Muhammad Agha launched a joint operation on Baangi and Garang military posts. The fighting lasted from i;oo Pm to 9:00 Pm. Both posts were completely destroyed. Mujahideen captured 11 Klashinkovs, one P.K., one D.SH.K., one Mortar, 200 hand granades, one communication set, nine Radios, 200,000 Klashinkov bullets, and 80,000 D.Sh.K. bullet^, jn the operation four enemy soldiers were killed'and another four along with two officers were captured. One Mujahid was wounded.
12/6/87, Mujahideen of "Martyred Eng. Zahid front" shot at a Russian gunship helicopter in Mizgeen by firing R.P.Gt7 1 rocket launcher. The helicopter fell down near Karaiz SurKh of Mohammad Agha district. The next day Russian troops came by land and air and removed the shattered pieces of the copter to Kabul.
                    LAGHMAN PROVINCE
6/7/87, Mujahideen of Hazrat Umar unit located in Qarghaie district attacked enemy's Khairokhail and Gerdabim military posts. The fighting lasted from 5:00 Pm. to 9:00 Pm. Both posts were-destroyed and 25 soldiers were killed. One tank was also destroyed by mine explosion.
5/7/87, Mujahideen of Hazrat Ali front attacked Spe’en Tahna, Mithli Kamar and Gerdawa military posts along the Kabul-Jalalabad highway. Gerdawa Tahna was completely destroyed and the other two posts were heavily damaged. One tank and seven trucks were also destroyed and a large number of the enemy troops were killed or wounded.
                    NINGERHAR PROVINCE
                                                 4
23/7/87, The Shinwar Mujahideen of Jamiat I&lami in joint operation with Mujahideen of other organizations attacked the c.ery's military posts in Ghani Khail, Nazian, and Aach-een districts and Dour Baba Sub-district. The fighting lasted for 24 hours. Three posts were captured by Mujahideen and subsequently destroyed, and other posts were also heavilv damaged. More than 60 enemy soldiers were killed and a large number Bare wounded As a result of the enemy bombardment, six Mujahideen were Martyred and four were injuTed*
                    GHAZNI PROVINCE
8/7/S7, Mujahideen launched an attack on Kampani and the Seventh Division headquarters from 6:00 Pm. to 9:00 P.m.
One old hotel and several houses were damaged. Eighteen soldiers and five officers were killed.
                    PAKTIA PROVINCE
Mid July, 1987, the puppet regime distributed 101 Kalashin-kovs ana other light weapons to the people of Musa Khail district so that they use them against Mujahideen. When the Mangal Council of Mujahideen under the command to Mirza Khan approached those people, however, all of them joined the Mujahideen and surrendered their weapons.