a t:nu a n vr	o 10, May 15, 1991, page Q
AiHjllAJNews VOl /, JN	
'rjp.PS^fcir .'L^;v■ v Wr :j- Tet: <052l14138 i, FAX:(D52 Pi 42410 ^ |	r—	n p Review 	:—-U
Editorial V	"Scars of War" fPoussieres de Guerre) is the title of a remarkable book which was published last October following screening of a film by the same name about the consequences of ten years of war in Afghanistan. This is the latest book on Afghanistan published in France. Seven thousand copies of the'book has already been sold around the world. It is the result of one year of research by two French journalists, Frederic Laffont and Christophe de Ponfilly. The first team headed by Frederic Laffont went to Moscow, Minsk, Tashkent and Kabul. The second team, led by Christophe de Ponfilly, went to Afghanistan with the Mujahideen to the areas controlled by Supervisory Council headed by Commander Masood and Peshawar. The book is exceptional because it tells the history of all men and women involved in this war. For the first time, Soviet veterans, their wives and mothers make confessions on this hidden drama which tore apart the Soviet society. For the first time, Afghans and Soviets find themselves in front of each other talking to journalists who listen to them from a neutral position. It was a useless and shameful war for the Soviets but Jihad (Holy war in defence of homeland and faith) for the Afghans who suffered one and half millions dead. At the lights of this document one perceives how the two so different societies, Afghan and Soviet, are transforming. Finally "Scars of War" in addition to covering of current events is also a page of the Afghan History and a testimony which is lacking about other wars imposed on us: Alexender the Great in 330-326 B.C., Mongols in 1221-1222 and British in 1838-1842, 1878-1880 and 1919. This remarkable book will be translated into Persian and probably Pushtu to allow our countrymen to read it. The film is already translated to Persian. "Scars of War" is Published bv Robert Laffont, October 1990, in 317 Page Earlier, Christophe de Pnfilly had written another book Le clandestin dans la guerre des Resistants Afghans. Mehrbuddin Mas tan
Our POWs need protection Treatment of prisoners of war (POW) by the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime has become a subject for the media debate since the fall of Khost. The Kabul regime has launched a campaign for the release of its prisoners. The Foreign Minister of regime, Abdul Wakil, raised this issue with the UN Secretary General during his recent visit to New York. The Mujahideen captured about 2500 soldiers and officers of the Kabul regime in Khost. The Mujahideen treatment of POWs has been generally much better than the treatment of POWs by the Kabul regime and the Soviets. It is a common practice among the Mujahideen to release conscript soldiers immediately after their capture and even they have helped prisoners financially to join their families. Officers and soldiers with criminal records are kept in prisons for some time, but in most cases, they are also set free. The Mujahideen give medical aid to wounded prisoners of war and feed them from what they eat themselves. Of course, there has been occasional cases of maltreatment of POWs by some Mujahideen groups which is deplorable but cannot be avoided in a country engaged in a guerrilla war with numerous armed groups and fighting fronts. But, these cases are rare. The Mujahideen have treated the Soviet POWs better than regime prisoners. In most cases, Soviet POWs live a normal life like the Mujahideen. Despite the hostile policy of Moscow towards Afghan people, the Mujahideen have freed many Soviet POWs on humanitarian grounds . Soviet have failed to reciprocate to these gestures. The Mujahideen have started to allow ICRC and foreign journalists to visit prisoners which is a positive development in itself. The Soviets and the Kabul regime, on the other hand, do not admit having any POWs. Mujahideen captured by them are labelled as terrorists, foreign agents and saboteurs. They face death or rigorous imprisonment Prisoners released after serving several years in regime jails talk of torture and trial by revolutionary courts. Killing of wounded Mujahideen by regime people is common.Here is an example: A wounded soldier who was hospitalized in Wazir Akber Khan hospital in Kabul said: " A wounded Mujahid from Panjshir was brought to the hospital in April of 1984. Several Parchami and Khalqi officers poured into the room. They accused him of killing their relatives. They injected poison to the wounded Mujahid and killed him in front of all other patients." Restriction on the flow of information from Kabul stops the story of regime's atrocities from reaching to the outside world. It worth mentioning that the Soviet Union and Kabul regime have signed the Geneva convention on POWs, while Mujahideen have not. The Mujahideen expect the international human rights organization to exert pressure on Soviet Union and Kabul regime to abide by the Geneva convention which they have signed and treat Mujahideen POWs according to international norms.	