AFGHANews Vol 8, No 17, September 1,1992, page ©
silences Kabul guns
From page (1)
their remaining 172 diplomats and other foreign staff by air. The government" announced a 10-hour ceasefire oh August 27. Hezb had earlier agreed to such a ceasefire. But when the three IL-76 Russian transport planes landed in Kabul, Hezb rocketed the runway, destroying one plane and injuring several Soviet troops who had flown in as a security detachment. Most of the Russians got out on the two planes which survived. An Afghan military transport plane took the remaining staff, including the Russian ambassador, to Mazar-i-Sharif the next day.
The Red Cross remained in Kabul to extend humanitarian assistance to the needy people. So has Halo Trust, a“ UN-funded British charity engaged in demining operations. Ironically, these are the only international organizations who have had foreign employees killed in the line of duty since the Islamic revolution in April.
Three western journalists remained in Kabul to report the war. But due to disrupted communications and the closure of the airport to civilian flights, war coverage from Kabul was often sketchy.	'
Hezb's "Afghan News Agency," based in Islamabad, a safe distance from the mayhem their party was inflicting in Kabul, filled die gap. As a result, the war coverage was generally negative from the government’s point of view. At one point, BBC in London inexplicably allowed a Hezb spokesman to read a communique over the air - % favor which would have prompted world-wide outrage had it been granted to Hekmatyar’s fellow terrorists in the IRA, PLO, or the government of Iraq, for example.
Hezb's rocket attacks created tremendous problems for the people of Kabul; as many as 2,000 people were killed and several thousand were wounded. Streams of people left their homes and took refuge in die provinces or Pakistan;	1
Many went north, some to Mazar, others to towns and villages along the Salang highway. Some took refuge in safer areas of Kabul, especially Khair Khana. Even the notorious- Pul-i-Charkhi prison had the privilege of sheltering some of the refugees. In order to feed their children or pay for their travel expenses, many people auctioned their house-hold belongings
along the roads. More than 100,000 Kabulis became refugees. Some diplomats who stayed believed the number could be as higK as 500,000.
During the month of August, according to some estimates, about 40,000 Afghans took refuge in Pakistan. Worried, about the influx of new refugees, Pakistan government sealed its borders. Pakistan and the UN offered* assistance for the establishment of re^igee camps in Jalalabad.
Taking advantage of the opportunity for political advancement. General Dostum asked for international help for the refugees in Mazar. In response to his request, India and Iran sent medical supplies.
Reports from across the border said Hikmatyar was still receiving military supplies from Pakistan during the fighting. The government raised this issue with the government of Pakistan, which assured Kabul it would do everything it could to stop such assistance reaching Hezb. Pakistani officials have reported that they stopped 14 trucks loaded with ammunition for Hikmatyar. According to BBC, the people of Bajaur, along the border with Afghanistan, have asked Islamabad to remove Hezb’s arms depots from their areas.
But trucks with Pakistani number plates have been seen bringing supplies to Hezb bases in Charasiab and Bagrami near Kabul. Diplomatic sources have said that over 140 trucks laden with arms and other supplies to support Hezb's campaign of terrorism have left Pakistan since the fighting began, and that they are still coming.
Earlier, the prime minister of Pakistan had,condemned the attacks on Kabul and had said that those who flout moral values would not .be allowed to use Pakistani tenitory for their activities. While the Prime Minister of Pakistan is sincere in his statement, some elements within the Inter Services Intelligence directorate, Pakistan's spy agency, continue to abet Hikmatyar's crimes.
This should come as no suiprise; Hezb and ISI have always been close. Hikmatyar was given the lion's share of foreign assistance sent to the Mujahideen through Pakistan.
Hezb Islami also continues its political and propaganda activities against the Islamic government from inside Pakistan. Hezb propaganda sheets are printed in Pakistan; its news agency op-
erates from Islamabad. Hezb political officers are given facilities to go abroad for political activities, and the party receives funds from the Middle East through Pakistani banks. Pakistani volunteers fight alongside Hezb against the government. Arab volunteers come via Pakistan to fight against the Islamic government in Kabul. The numerous Pakistani and Arab volunteers fighting for Hikmatyar made their presence felt during the recent fighting.
Qazi Hussain Ahmed, the leader of Jamaat Islami Pakistan, sends funds and experts to help Hikmatyar in his war efforts. His engineers are helping Hezb build an air strip in Logar, so jets from Shindand air base can refuel there after bombing Kabul. Hezb's effort to use Jalalabad’s air base for this purpose was opposed by other parties Gulbuddin's foreign supporters must have assured him of a steady fuel supply for him to launch such a mad project.
President Rabbani has asked all friendly countries, especially the neigh boring.Islamic countries, to stop help ing Hikmatyar, who is waging a cam paign of terrorism against the people of Afghanistan.
The world community showed great concern over fighting in Kabul. The UN, EEC, OIC, US and neighboring countries called for the end of hostilities and solution of the. issue through negotiations.
The fighting closed some roads.
As a result, the prices of essential commodities and fuel skyrocketed. The exchange rate of Afghan currency dropped 100 percent The war disrupted supplies of electricity and clean water to the citizens of Kabul. TV and radio broadcasts were also disrupted, though both have now resumed.
Kabul newspapers stopped publish ing because the paper store and printing press of the Ministry of Information were set on fire by Gulbuddin’s rockets. AFGHANews could not be published • on time for the same reason.
What worries the residents of Kabul the most is the fear of shortages, of food and fuel during the fast approaching winter. The time spent fighting Hezb couild have been spent bringing and storing supplies of food and fuel for the cold weather.
Disruption of Kabul’s water, power and transport systems created problems |-for the hospitals,, which were full of , rocket victims:	'	■