AFGHANews Vol 5, No 8, April 15,1989, page @
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Saranwal Mahmood Khan
Commander Abdul Mahmood Daqeeq, known as Saranwal Mahmood Khan, was bom 35 years ago in Khench village in the upper Panjshir valley. Khench is a village where the mines of the best emeralds of the world are located Saranwal Mahmood's father was a farmer possessing a limited piece of land along with some animals. His brother was a shopkeeper with one of the twenty shops in Khench village.
Saranwal Mahmood was first sent to the nearest mosque by his father to learn the Holy Quran. "He was keen to go to the mosque but lazy to learn it,"
said his brother Abdul Wahid, now liv-
\
ing in Peshawar. In the mosques in the north of Afghanistan pupils learn the Quran, Persian classics and how to read and write.
Mahmood was seven years old when he went to Khench primary school. He was in the third grade of the school when his eldest brother, Abdul Ghias, transferred him to Khanabad district in Kunduz province. His eldest brother, a shopkeeper in Khanabad, helped him to complete his primary and high school in Kunduz.
"Saranwal Mahmood was interested in learning Islamic teachings as well as his high school subjects. So he was also attending Samandar Madrasa (religious school ) to fulfil his goal," said his brother.
The Panjshir, a narrow valley with a relatively large population, was not a good place economically for the poor to live. Most of its young talented people used to go somewhere else to work and earn something to live on. One of Mahmood's brothers worked in Kabul and the rest in Khanabad. After completing high school Mahmood entered Kabul University in 1973 in the Faculty of Law and Political Sciences.
In the early seventies Kabul University was a melting pot of different ideas. Communists, nationalists, regionalists, social democrats and Islamists were all trying to influence the students. While the Kabul government headed by Daud was favoring Moscow- trained communists, it located Muslim activists, imprisoned them, hanged them or forced them out of Kabul University.
Mahmood was a Muslim activist. He completed his college, scoring the highest marks. He was keen to be a lecturer at the same college but since he was a known Muslim activist he was not accepted. Instead he was sent to Ghazni province to work as an attor-
ney. He stayed two years in Ghazni until the communists took over. Mahmood was appointed as the head of the Committee of Control and Inspection in the council of ministers of the Taraki regime.
"Mahmood repeatedly contacted Commander Masood to allow him to escape from Kabul but Masood did not. Masood wanted to have his contacts at the higher level of government On the another hand. Commander Masood wanted to have someone in the government's judicial branch to cooperate with Mujahideen," said Mahmood's brother. "It was impossible for Mahmood to stay longer in Kabul. He was a yard from the gate of the prison himself," recalled his brother.
In 1981 he left Kabul and joined Commander Masood in the Panjshir valley. Since then he has worked in different positions for Masood. Mahmood worked as the main contact between Panjshir front and underground cells of the resistance in Kabul for three years.
In 1984 Mahmood was very active in the valley helping Commander Masood in administration of the front. In 1985 after the fall of Pushghoor garrison in the Panjshir valley. Commander Masood decided to organize the north of Afghanistan. He selected Mahmood as the head of the Panjshir valley, which was approved by the commanders of the valley in a large meeting held in the same year. -x
Mahmood being a non-military
man, he learned a lot about military affairs during his work in the valley until, in the later stages of 1986-1987, he became himself the commander of many operations in the valley.
Mahmood was successful in filling the gap in the absence of Masood in the Panjshir.
He is a soft-spoken man and an ardent Muslim. He has a good sense of humor. He mostly wears a clean combat jacket, loose trousers and polished boots. "He has not seen his family for about six years,” said his brother "simply because he did not have time."
His family of six members lives in Peshawar.
FIMA meets in Lahore
The sixth congress of the Federation of Islamic Medical Associations (FIMA), held in Lahore on March 8, discussed ways of helping the Afghan people.
The meeting, which continued for four days, was hosted by Jamaat Islami Pakistan.
Delegates of member organizations from all over the world participated in the meeting.
Dr. Naqibullah and Dr. Mohammad Hashim represented tlje Mujahideen medical organizations.
The next annual meeting of FIMA will be held in Kabul if it is liberated.
UN must stop foreign interference in Afghanistan’s affairs ( Gorbachov)