AFMM.NEWS
maijgLidLJL5z^

      Stats me at of the Delegation of the Afghan Alliance presented by Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbent current spokesman on Monday, June 16, 1986, at the National Press Club Washington , B.C.
                                        IN THE NAME OF ALLAH
      Today, I Burhanuddin Rsbbani, and my distinguished members of the Alliance, Pir Sayed Ahmed Gailani, Prof. Sebgatullah Mojadedi # and Moulavi Nabi Mohamedi have come to the United States on our first official visit as a delegation to your nation’s capital.
      We have come to meet with leaders of this nation and to present' our cause before the court of world opinion .
      This morning we met with President Reagan in the Oval Office where he piedged his support.
      As you know, the Soviet Union invaded our country on December 22, 1979 while the West was celebrating Christmas, with more than 83,000 troops. Immediately they seized the presidential palace, killed then president Hafizullah Amin and installed Babrak Karmal, a puppet they trained.
      What followed was the almost systematic attempt to destroy our nation. More than 79% of the villages and towns have been destroyed by Soviet air attacks. The land has been made useless. Food is very scarce and signs of famine are evident in the Northeast and Northwest provinces. In addition all hospitals outside of Communist- controlled cities were destroyed.
      Now they are employing 150,009 Soviet troops including Spetsnaz (special forces). Night!me assaults along the border are more frequent and it is more difficult to deliver supplies. In addition Communist backed terrorist attacks in Pakistan and bombings across the border have dramatically risen since Gorbachev came to power. Although the Soviets have destroyed most of our land they have not destroyed our faith and our determination to fight this war to the last Afghan.
      As representatives of the Alliance we have come to show the world that we are united and strong. We enjoy popular support both inside our country, where military cooperation has increased, and in the refugee camps where one third of the population now lives. Our changes of leadership have been smooth and cooperative. Soon we will open up offices throughout the world.