RFRHRH HEWS UOL. IV HO. 5, T/3' ”68 PR6E ^
 be effective for- a while. Soon the people will see through their plots. Then they will turn against Russians more vehemently. If the international community has made Afghanistan a litmus test of Gorbachev's "Glasnost," he must try Ms best not to fail in the test.
 We believe that sooner or later Russia will realize that it cannot control Afghanistan and it cannot subjugate its people. Despite all their claims, however, Russias1 actions show that they have not realized this point yet. They seem to still hope that they can retain their influence in Afghanistan and deny the Afghan people their right of self-determination. The sooner they sincerely seek, to withdraw from Afghanistan and stop their interference there, the better it will be for the Afghan people, for the Russian people, and for the cause or freedom, peace, and justice in the world.
                                  FORMULA FOB fi TRANSITIONAL GOUEP.NMENT IN AFGHANISTAN
 The following text was finalised in the late hours of the night of February 22nd by the High Council of the Islamic Unity of Afghan Mujahideen (IUAH). It sets out a structure for a transitional government in Afghanistan. This agreement has been forwarded to the government of Pakistan.
 how that the Soviets have made a commitment to withdraw their forces from Afghanistan, ail parties concerned will act with a full sense of their responsibilities and in accordance with the supreme aspirations and in the interests of the Afghan people who have heroically carried on their Jehad in defense of their faith, freedom, independence, and sovereignty. Accordingly, the leaders of the Islamic Unity of Afghan Mujahideen have unanimously decided to accept a settlement along the following lines:
 There will be a’ transitional government which will ensure a ceasefire and the peaceful transition to law and order, to permit the safe and complete withdrawal of the Soviet forces: the return of the refugees with honour and ensure general elections, consistent with Islamic law, within six months after the withdrawal of Soviet forces.
 The structure of the stete mV wctu&e
 A Shoora-e-Ali (Grand Council) which will be the supreme body of the state, comprising' the leaders of the seven party alliance. This body will provide joint leadership during the interim period.
 A broad-based transitional government representing all sections of the Afghan nation. This government is proposed to replace the present regime in Kabul before the signing of the Geneva accords which it will sign under the auspices of the United Nations Organization.
 The government will consist of a cabinet of 28 ministers under a Raees-i-0ukumat (head of government) who will also be the Raees-i-Daulat (head of state). The cabinet will consist of fourteen Mujahideen, seven refugees -and seven Muslims presently living in Kabul.