| IMTHE BAM Of AIMtOHn ALLAH |
AFGHANnews
          A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI’AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 2G4. PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                VOL. Ill, NO. 17. 1/9/1987.
                                                                 WILL RUSSIA SUCCEED IN SE' NORTHERN AFGHANISTAN
 Reports about Russian design to annex Northern Afghanistan into its own empire and create a rump state in the South . have been circulating around since the time of Tarakl and Amin--before the Russian invasion. Recent reports in the news media talk about the intensification of Russian efforts in that direction Ce.a. Pakistan Times. July 30).
                       /
 Russian moves which indicate that country’s intentions include the following:
 1- Encouraging the Tajik. Uzbak and Turkman people in the North to assert their ethnic, cultural and linguistic independence .
 2- Settlement of about 3o,ooo people from the colonized central Asia in the Northern cities: They have taken over schools and civil services and work for the achievement of the Russian aim by their propaganda and their activities.
 3- Indoctrination of the Northern youth: Host of the 50000 . Afghan children (mainly under the age of io> sent to study ini Russia since 1980 are from the North* Thus, most of the 20,000 Afghans who have returned from Russia are stationed
 in the Northern provinces.
 4- Reliance on local militias and police forces Instead of the Afghan puppet army: There are only two divisions of the puppet army in the North and the number of their troops does not exceed a few thousands. The number of the militia and police forces, on the other hand, are several times more.
 5- Establishing direct cultural and economic ties between the Northern provinces and the Central Asian "Republics":
 Ten major economic agreements have been signed between Russian authorities and Governers of Northern provinces in the last few months without the participation of the Kabul regime. Cultural exchanges are also conducted directly.
 6- Grooming a leader: Sayed Naseem Shah, a Russian agent who spent 16 years in that conntry, was brought back to Afghanistan in 1982. He was rapidly promoted through, the ranks of the puppet party and in less than 3 years was made a member of the Central Committee. He is the head of the treacherous group "setam-e-Mi11i", and the commander of the "Mohafiz" Militia force. He is being mentioned as the future leader
 of the ”i6th Soviet Republic".