         .....Mali.
k^klXSk
   ......fH.U. U
 P-2
                                    NO INTENTION OP TROOP WITHDRAWAL
                          MMIMnMHtNiHiwuHrkM M M W>* Mt M*
      The Soviet leaders have tried to unn the proximity talks in Geneva to gain time for a military victory. They are not sincere when they say that they intend to leave, Um woven lit round of talks which despite a lot of optimism, failed to go any where because the Soviets wanted a withdrawal time of several years. They know that this demand is not'acceptable to the other side and by asking for such a long time, they want to .prolong the talks which have been going on since 1902.                          1
     If the Soviets were sincere about the withdrawal they may not need more than a few weeks to withdraw* But they are afraid of a quick withdrawal because they know that their puppets can not survive without 1*he presence of Soviet troops.
     In order to reach a true settlement the Soviets must forget about having a puppet regime in Afghanistan. Either they should stay and fight to preserve a puppet regime or submit to the will of the people for their choice of government and the withdrawal of their forces. As long as they have not decided to accept the right of the people for self-deterrainatior. they have to stay .and fight. From all the evidence it seems that at the momeibent they do not have the intention to withdraw, only to talk about withdrawal.
                         CRlMfH/iia try CRIMINALS
     The first alleged Nani war criminal to be deported from United States to the Soviet Union nil I go on LriAl next month. The war criminals of today try the war criminal,*! of the past,
     Much is said and wr1I I on about the crimes which Nazis have committeda The Hunt and West are helping each other- to punish those who were their common enemy. We agree on punishing those who have caused the death of millions of innocent people.
     W® believe ' in the application of justice for all. What the Soviets arc doing today in Afghanistan is similar to what the Nazis were doing in the past. So for the Soviets have killed half a million people^(out of a pre-war population of Id million), have driven out more than four mill.Iona ami the war i n s t i l l, mill, liming* What la the difference between the two? ,
     I f tho West in helping tlio Soviet n to try war criminals of the past why are they not demanding thin •»I war criminals who are responsible for the death of half a million Afghans. Why are tho Soviet leaders recieved as state guests with red carpet ceremonies?. It is shameful that the criminals of today serve as a jury for tho criminals of the past. Crime is crime, committed by Nazis oj Soviets, Justice becomes the law of the world only if it is applied to all. llLpocracy and double standards can not solve the problems of injustice. Soviets are as criminal as Nazis and must be tried in the same court.