Vol 6, No 11	June	1,1990
Najib repairs his scarred public image
The Kabul regime has begun an extensive campaign to improve its image outside Afghanistan, especially in the West. The campaign is designed to undermine support for the Afghan resistance by giving the regime a more human face.
One step taken recently by the Kabul regime has been to drop the word "imperialism" from regime's constitution. Another has been to allow private investment in Kabul.
One article of the regime's constitution mandated the government to support anti-imperialism movements. The Kabul regime until recently used the word "imperialism" as a synonym for the United States.
The Kabul regime also has given permission for the establishment of a Pepsi Cola bottling factory. Despite sharp fall in the sale of soft drinks in Afghanistan, the Kabul regime has provided 75% of the compay's $4.5 million funding, with a tax-free period of six years. Sales of Coca-Cola dropped from 1.5 million creates of 25 bottles each in 1986 to less than 100,000 crates in 1989.
For a country which relies on the Soviet aid for all its expenses, such projects can have no meaningful economic purpose.
The Kabul regime also has passed laws to curb drug trafficking. This step was taken when the emergency was lifted, and other political changes were announced at the beginning of last month.
The latest move in this direction was a beauty contest organised by the youth branch of the People's Democratic Party (the regime's version of Komsomol). The regime radio and television publicised the event heavily.
The girl who won the contest was an hostess of Aryana Afghan Airlines. She received a cash prize of 2000 Afghanis (about $ 2).
Zahir Shah intensifies efforts to regain power in Kabul
Ex-king Mohammad Zahir Shah has issued a statement from exile in Rome, Italy, offering to mediate between the Mujahideen and what he called the 'effective forces of the nation' to overcome the present situation, which endangers Afghanistan and its people.
Mohammad Zahir Shah ruled Afghanistan from 1933 to 1973. He was overthrown in a military coup engineered by his cousin. Prince Mohammad Daud. He abdicated his throne by writing a letter to President Daud from exile. He and his family have been living since then in Rome.
The ex-king’s statement, read out in Rome by one of his representatives on May 11, says that the Mujahideen have not been able to topple the Kabul regime and now the country is endangered by ethnic and sectarian tensions. He also points out the problem of outside interference in the affairs of Afghanistan.
He says that Mujahideen leaders should not claim the political leadership of the country, because the people have not had a chance to choose their leadership.
He offered his services to mediate between the Mujahideen and other 'effective forces' of the society in order to bring about unity among them. The ex-
king says that he will follow his program in an organized manner and that he is in touch with friendly countries about his plans.
Zahir Shah's statement provoked different reaction from different groups. The Kabul regime, welcoming it, said that it was expecting practical steps by the ex-king.
The AIG reaction was not unanimous. The AIG president, Sebghatullah Mujaddadi, without going into detail, said he welcomed any positive step by Afghans to solve the problems of the country.
Prof. Sayyaf, the prime minister of AIG, asked the king to refrain from issuing such statements because he has no role to play in future Afghan politics.
Jami'at leader Prof. Rabbani told AfghaNews that such statements will not solve the problem, but merely complicate them.
Several commanders belonging to NIFA (Gailani party) supported the king's statement.
The king's statement was made public before the US-USSR summit which is to held in Washington at the end of May. The Afghanistan issue will be discussed by the leaders of the United States and the Soviet Union.
Kabul regime holds second position in world arms race
The Kabul regime is the second major recipient of arms in Asia after India, and the Soviet Union is the first exporter of arms in world, says a report by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute,
SIPRI reports say that Soviet Union sells 37% of the world's arms, and the United States, 34%. France ranks third and the United Kingdom
fourth in conventional arms I sales. China is the worlds fifth arms exporter.
Asia is buying more arms I than any other continent, and l Afghanistan is buying more I than in the past, the SIPRI report says.
According to Western ■ sources the Kabul regime re-1 ceives military aid worth be-1 tween 300 and 400 million dol-1 lars each month from the Soviet Union.	I