AFGHANews Vol 6, No 11, June 1,1990, page ©
Who's who in the Mujahideen
Commander Rahimullah
Rahimullah was bom 28 years ago in Gomaran village, Mohammad Agha district.
His father, Haji Khan Lala, a Tajik, was a shopkeeper in his village. After primary education in Gomaran , Rahimullah enrolled in Mohammad Agha High School.
He was in high school when the communist coup took place, and in 1979 he left the eleventh class of the school to join the Mujahideen.
Rahimullah first joined Hezb Islami and fought under the command of Engineer Naeem. When Eng. Naeem was martyred in 1981, he joined Jami'at and started to work with Commander Akbar. After a while. Commander Akbar was captured by the Soviet forces, and was executed in 1983.
Rahimullah was chosen by the Mujahideen to lead Commander Akbar’s group. In one of the attacks, his father, who was 75 years old, was killed by the communist forces. Commander Rahimullah leads about 40 Mujahideen. He has taken part in many battles. Here are some of the operations in which he has taken active part:	(
In 1984, the communist forces attacked the Mujahideen base in
Gomaran village. The Mujahideen under his command resisted. Fourteen communists including a nephew of Babrak Karmal, former head of the Kabul regime, and Ashraf Be Khuda (Godless) who was also a relative of Babrak, were killed and seven soldiers were captured.
In retaliation, the communists attacked the area and massacred 32 civilians, including his father. They killed everyone whom they found in the area.
In the same year his Mujahideen participated in an ambush against an enemy convoy in Safid Sang area, destroying 30 vehicles and capturing three officers. Two Mujahideen including his cousin, Mamoor Payinda Gul, were killed in the operation.
In 1985, the Mujahideen ambushed an enemy convoy in Safid Sang area, destroying 12 vehicles and killing or wounding a considerable number of soldiers. Commander Rahimullah lost three Mujahideen in this operation. 30 civilians were wounded in regime’s retaliatory action.
He is married. Most of the people of Gomaran are refugees in, Pakistan and the village was destroyed by the Soviet troops.
Commander Abdul Latif
Haji Abdul Latif Faizi was bom in a Pushtoon family in Nasir-village near Pul-i-Alam, the provincial capital of Logar in 1956. His father. Mullah Mohammad Jan, was a religious scholar.
Abdul Latif attended religious schools and in 1978, when the communist coup took place, he was studying in Kandahar. He returned to Logar in: 1979 and joined the Mujahideen to wage armed struggle against the communists.
He took active part in the uprising which resulted in the liberation of Logar province in 1979. The province was in the hands of the Mujahideen for three days.
Abdul Latif moved to Do Bandi, a narrow valley in the east side of the Logar valley. He was appointed as the commander of Jami«l in Pul-i-Alam.
Commander Abdul Latif was quite active against the Soviets and regime forces;	‘
In 1980 he took part in an attack against an enemy convoy, destroying about 80 vehicles. He was injured in this operation.
In 1986, regime forces attacked Nasir village. Commander Latif resisted the enemy and killed three officers and some soldiers. The enemy retaliated by aeria bombing of the village killing and wounding a number of civilians.
In 1988, his Mujahideen attacked a strategic enemy post in Qala-i-Wazir. After making initial progress they were forced to retreat when commander Abdul Jalil was killed. The enemy suffered heavy casualties in the attack.
Commander Latif topk interest in opening schools. He established two religious schools. In May this year, 16 students graduated, after completely memorizing the Holy Quran, from one of the schools he opened.
He was killed in November 18, iQ$9 when his car hit a land mine planted by some unknown people in Logar. He has left behind a widow and three children.
Cmdr. Hanan
Mohammad Arif, known as Dr. Hanan, was bom 35 years ago in a Pushtoon family in Surkhab village, Mohammad Agha District
After completing primary school in Suikhab, he went to Mohammad Agha High School. In 1974 he became a student of the Veterinary Faculty of the Kabul University. After the coup of 1978, Mohammad Arif left college and became a refugee in Pakistan.
He joined Jami’at through Ustad Ahmad Zay, one of the leaders of the Islamic Movement
His Mujahideen have taken part in various engagements against the Soviet and regime forces, some of which are as follows:
In 1979, his Mujahideen fought the regime forces in Dobandi area and inflicted heavy losses on them.
In 1980, his Mujahideen took part in fighting launched by the enemy upon Surkhab. Eight vehicles were destroyed, and several enemy soldiers were killed in this attack.
In 1981, his Mujahideen destroyed three enemy trucks and captured 20 weapons.
In 1987, the Mujahideen attacked a Soviet-regime ambush party between Surkhab and Puli Alam, destroying two tanks and killing 20 soldiers. One heli copter was also shot down. Six Mujahideen belonging to Dr. Hanan were killed in the attack.
In 1985, in an operation against enemy positions in Mohammad Agha, his Mujahideen captured more than 40 guns.
He is married and has three chil dren. Like most people in Logar, his family lives in Pakistan.
Sadruddin against dog mine detection
According to an article published in Los Angles Times on April 30 Prince Sadruddin, the UN coordinator for humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan, opposes using dogs to sniff out mines.
Sadruddin, in a letter to the American ambassador to Pakistan, said that the American project of using dogs to detect mines violates the dog’s animal rights. He said mines placed by human beings should be removed by human beings