,:. aamaaaaaas aaa :gases aaaai^Siia^^	iBsaaatiaaa;	^s^smsmsms^
Vol 8, No 15	August	1,1992
The Republic of Tajikistan and the Islamic State of Afghanistan have agreed to establish diplomatic relations and cooperate in economic and trade matters.
The Tajik delegation, headed by Akbar Sekandarof, the acting chairman of Tajikistan's supreme council, came to Kabul on July 13 to hold talks with Afghan leaders. The prime minister and foreign minister of Tajikistan were included in the delegation.
During their slay in Kabul, the Tajik guests met with President Rabbani, Prime Minister Farid, Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood and other officials of Afghanistan.
Afghanistan has agreed to give training to young Tajik diplomats in Kabul. The two sides agreed to form a joint commission 10 study the possibility of exporting Afghan gas to Tajikistan in return for electricity supplied to Afghanistan.
They also agreed to cooperate in eradicating agricultural diseases and cany out a feasibility study for joint power projects on the Amu and Panja rivers along the borders of the two countries. They will study the possibili ty of establishing air links between Kabul and Dushambe.
The security situation along the border of the two countries also came under discussion in the talks. Tajikistan, which is facing political crises at home, is worried about the temptation for the opposition to seek military assistance from Afghan Mujahideen across the border. But the Islamic government assured the Tajik delegation of non-interference in the internal affairs of the republic. Prof. Rabbani said that Afghanistan was in favor of political stability in Tajikistan.
The government of Tajikistan has offered border trade between the two countrie.
Casualties of Kabul clashes
The three days of fighting between Hezb Wahdat, a Shia party, and Itiihad Islami of Prof. Sayyaf in western districts of Kabul resulted in the killing and injuring of as many as 1,000 people and the destruction of many houses, shops and cars.
The immediate reason for the clashes that started on July 18 could not be ascertained, but tension between the two parties had led to fighting once before at the beginning of June.
Two thing, happened before this tragic event which might have triggered the violence:
On July 12, the head of the Saudi-based Muslim World league in Peshawar, Abulhasan Madani, a Saudi national, was kidnapped by Hezb Wahdat and was released the next day after intervention by several Mujahideen leaders.
The leadership council issued a statement on July 17 asking all Mujahideen groups to leave the city, and gave charge of the security of their respective areas lo the joint forces of the defense and interior ministries. The clean-up area was situated west of the city where Hezb Wahdat and Ittihad have a presence.
The representative of Wahdat had refused to attend Leadership Council meetings because the three ministries promised to that party by Prof. Mujaddidi were not given to it.
A statement of the ministry of defense said the fighting was the work of those who wanted to disrupt the cleanup operation. ,
The two sides made use of artillery, heavy rockets and mortars against each other. An estimated 3,000 rounds of surface-to-surface rockets were fired by both sides.
Fighting was brought to an end through political discussions and a permanent ceasefire was signed on July 21. The leaders of the two sides told the
1,000
leadership council that they had not planned die attack and promised to do everything possible to avoid recurring this tragedy in the future.
The two sides also fought a propaganda war accusing each other of being puppets in the hands of foreigners. Afghan politicians usually blame foreigners for the problems of their country.
While there is no sign of involve ment by foreign countries in the recent trouble, the state-owned Tehran Radio of Iran allowed Hezb Wahdai's in flam matory statements to be broadcast. The radio even went so far as to blame Professor Rabbani for the tragic fighting because he refused to give the thftfe ministerial posts promised by Prof. Mujaddidi to Hezb WahdaL Quoting an unknown Hezb Wahdat source, the radio claimed that Rabbani had refused • to give them the posts in order to please Saudi Arabia!
After signing the ceasefire, all parlies agreed to help restore law and or der by cooperating with the clean-up operation. Three security districts were activated in the battle areas. The responsibility of each district was given jointly to two parties.
According a defense ministiy source, eight security districts out of 12 have been activated in Kabul and the remaining four will begin working soon. The source said that these measures will improve the law and order situation in the capital.
These tragic incidents caused a great deal suffering for the people of Kabul. Several thousand people left their homes to avoid fighting. The incident gave a chance for criminal elements to loot private and public property.
The leadership council has appointed a commission headed by the
(I
To page (3)