AFGHAN NEWS
No. 17
31-10-85
Pt.55
     Kabul University is guarded by armed men 2h hours a day and this is done by party members, Khad and a police unit which is stationed permanently inside the campus■
        There is a party structure in each faculty and party members closely watch the students and teachers. The University party branch supervises party activities in the whole University. The head of the University branch is the strongest man who decides about important matters including the appointment of officials and professors.
        The level of the education is dropping each year because the main purpose of this University is not to produce educated people. Its aim is to serve the party. Illiterate student from the tenth ilass in high schools, ontor the. university..without taking an exam after military service. Presence in the class is not necessary for party people. Passing the exam and promotion to the higher class in not bound to understanding time subject.
        The faculty of Engineering, whish .was famous for hard work and discipline has been closed. Some new faculties for social studies have been established on Soviet style. This last year 80^ of all the students hare been girls and the remaining 20°/o are men who are party
     members of Khad agents.
        Most of the experienced professors of the University have been killed,jailed or have left the country. The new professors are those who have, graduated from the Soviet Union and other Eastern bloc countries.
        There are many Soviet advisors in Kabul University who give directions. The Kabul University of today is not as it was before the invasion. Like all the other things in Afghanistan, it ha.s been spoiled by the. Soviet invaders.
                   P APE R _ M ORE _ FRIGHTE NT N G:__ TBA.N _ THEGUN
        Sometimes Mujahideen spread leaflets in the Russian language. In these leaflets they address the ordinary Soviet soldiers and other
               i
     officers and remind them of the crimes they are committing against the innocent people of Afghanistan. On one occasion some of these leaflets were spread in one of the Soviet bases near Salang. A large number of Soviet officers and soldiers irecieved these leaflets . The. Soviet authorities started a major search operation and put many of the officers and soldiers in jail. One of these officers who was going on leave was searched in Tashkant Airport and one of the leaflets was found in his pocket. He. was sent back to Kabul for interrogation.
        It seems that the Soviet high command in Afghanistan is afraid of the facts reaching their soldiers and officers.