AEGHAH©w Vol4, No 17, September 1,1988, Page 2
Baghlan
THE Mujahideen from Jami'at led by Mohlbuiiah fired four rockets into the main Soviet base in Dsshti Kailagai resulting In the huge explosion which killed and wounded 900 Russian soldiers, destroyed four helicopters on the ground,
230 APCs and military vehicles, burned eight depots of heavy arms, bombs and fuel oil os the 11th of August,
The rockets were fired from the Kuzor Hill about four kilometers from the Soviet base. The enemy depots were burning for two days. The fire initially started from oil-tankers which were hit by the rockets and then extended to the arms-loaded vehicles and heavy arms depots.
The explosion shattered splinters of tanks and trucks over a vast area and blocked the main Kabul-North highway passing through the area. Meanwhile huge Quantities of military clothes and oil storage were burned, The explosion is considered the biggest ever to have happened in such a strong Soviet base,
The base is situated near the Salang Highway on a flat area surrouned by small hills heavily mined and patrolled by the Russians.
Apart from rocket attacks from a far distance, there is virtually no access for the
Mujahideen to approach the
area,
ft is a base from which the Russians send reinforcements mostly to the North of the country. Sesides this, there are a large number of underground entrenchments built for producing ammunition.
Kaiiagai belongs to Dooshi district of Baghlan province,
Qandahar
The Mujahideen from Jam Tat captured the Arghandab district and Walibab Garrison situated 15 kilometers to the North-East of Qandahar city on the 20th of August,
The district was under heavy fighting for two months during which the Mujahideen wiped out the surrounding enemy bases which finally led to the fall of Arghandab district.
No details are available yet about the casualties.
©The Mujahideen under the command of Haji Habibullah raided militia posts in Bool dak area destroyyiag two tanks, killing or wounding 55 militiamen and capturing 2 others with two heavy * machine guns on the 23th of July.
Two Mujahideen were
kilted and five others were
injured in the operation,
Kabul
The Mujahideen from jami 'at raided some DR A posts in Paghman destroying a military jeep in which a DBA commander, a KHAD agent and the district administrator of Paghman were killed.
The attack which took place on the 5th of August was carried out under the command of Mullah Ezatullah, jami'at commander in Paghman,
©In another attack on two DRA outposts on the Paghman-Kabul route on the 6th of August, the Mujahideen destroyed the posts and captured 10 Light weapons,
Herat
One hundred enemy soldiers and militiamen headed by their commander, Noorgul, joined the Jam Tat Mujahideen along with their weapons in Ed ran area of Engii district on 25 July.
Retaliating to the defection, the DRA forces bombed Edran area and inflicted some casualties on the people.
The defection happened after the Mujahideen under commander Ismael Khan had announced a general amnesty In which he asked all the DRA forces and militiamen to join the Mujahideen,
©The Mujahideen
ambushed a military convoy of the DRA forces In Zindajan area destroying five tanks, three trucks, killing 25 soldiers and capturing nine Katashinkov rifles on the 15th of August,
The Mujahideen had no casualties.