BFDIIFM 1EUS VCL. Ill, NO. 12, 15/t/ 1907 P11GE4
 resistance fighters. Planes release their bombs from a high altitude which is ineffective. The enemy makes use of artillery and ground-to-ground missile to keep Mujahideen away from their positions. The morel of the Mujahideen was excellent.
 In Jaji all the Mujahideen belonging to different parties cooperate with each other and their joint action has stopped the enemy from expanding the control zone, jaji is vital for the Mujahideen because supply routes of the Mujahideen passe from the area.
                                      READY TO TALK WITH THE SOVIETS
 Recently Younis Khalis. the current spokesman of the Alliance, stated that Mujahideen are ready to talk directly to the Soviets to solve the problem of Afghanistan. Similar statements •"'ere also issued in the past few months by the other leaders of the resistance It is a principled position of the Mujahideen that there are tvo sides in the « conflict in Afghanistan: The Soviets as aggressors and the Mujahideen as the representatives of the people of Afghanistan. So they should set and talk about a political settlement.
 The Soviet? so far have not responded to those statements and emphasize the role of the puppet regime es the principal side and promote the idea of so-called national
 reconciliation.
 After six months of the announcement of that program, Soviets have realized that the program was a total failure. If Soviets are honest about finding a political solution to the problem they should abandon their empty pride and sit with the resistance and discuss the problems with them.
 If Soviets come to the table to discuss with a decision to recognize the right of the people of Afghanistan to self-de termination, withdraw all of their forces as soon as possible, give a guarantee not to interfere again, the rest of the problems which are of miner nar.ve could be solved vithout much difficulties. The key to the solution is with the Soviet?.
                                    INDIA'S ACTION A SOURCE OF CONCERN
 India violated international laws and created a crisis by sending its erir force in a so-called humanitarian mission to Sri Lanka There are problems in Sri Lanka the Tamil community has problems with the government and a civil war has been going on there for some time. But all that is taking place in a'country with recognized boundaries. Other people can be concerned about the people of Sri Lanka on moral basis and can put moral pressure on all sides to agree on a peaceful solution.
 But what India did, to air drop tons of stuff into Sri Lanka without the permission of its government end under the protection of war planes, to a gross violation of international lav and must be a source of worry for the international community.
 India considers itself a regional super power which tries to bully the small neighboring states. Looking back at the behavior of Indian governments, particularly the Indira family, it clearly seems that India supports aggression and even has acted as
 an aggressor itself.
 India supports the puppet regime of Cambodia and does not condemn Vietnam's invasion of that country. India does not condemn Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and is expanding its relations with the puppet regime in Afghanistan. In 1971 India invaded Pakistan and East Pakistan was separated to from a new country. Some small States in the Himalaya's were annexed to the Hindu empire. And now, interference in the affairs of Sri Lanka has taken open form. A country with a large population vhich has compiled a big arsenal of different arms and hes the support of another aggressor, the Soviet Union, could cause a big threat to peace.
 The world community should take the matter more seriously and let not the strong ones bully the weak ones to gain their hegemonistic aims.