fit) THliAMEQF ALM10HTY aIZahI
A F GH A Nnews
                   A FORTNIGHTLY BULLET IK OF JAM I'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264. PESHAWAR-PAKISTAN.
                              VOL. IV. NO. 2, 1/15/1988.
                                      TWO MORE GARRISONS CAPTURED
 The fall of two of the puppet regime's garrisons., one in Panjshir and the other in Baghlan. is a major victory for the Mujahideen.
 Shaba Garrison was captured in 25 minutes with only two Mujahideen casualties. Burka Garrison, located in a plain was captured in a similar manner.
 With the capture of these two garrisons, Mujahideen have .eliminated five enemy garrisons in less than six months and forced one more to evacuate. A large portion of the countryside was liberated and became safer for the civil population. The enemy lost some of its intelligence gathering outposts in the countryside and its underground political activities suffered a heavy blow. A large quantity of arms, ammunition and foodstuffs was captured. As a result, the morale of the Mujahideen and the local population rose high and that of the enemy fell,
 The capture of the two garrisons represents an important step forward in the war against the enemy . They were captured almost simultaneously. In the past Mujahideen were only able to attach one at a time.
 The attacks on the two garrisons were prepared and executed by local commanders. In the past Commander Masood supervised the planning and execution of all attacks. This shows the degree to which Mujahideen have progressed in preparing and carryin g out attacks.
 Finally, the two last victories came at a time when the Soviets and their puppets were issuing propaganda concerning their victories on the Khost front.
 The recent victories of the Mujahideen were a source of embarrasment to the puppet regime and will hasten its fall from grace with its Soviet masters by showing its incompetence in defending its fortified positions
                      ULEMA CONDEMNES THE PUPPET REGIME FOR BOMB BLASTS
 A group of important Ulema (Islamic Scholars) condemned Communist terrorism in the form of bomb blasts in Pakistan. The Ulema included Vice-President Rabita ai-Alans al-Islam!. Mr, Mohammad Mahmoudi Sawwaf (Saudi Arabia), Mr. Abdul Majid Zindani (Yemen). Mr Abdul Fatlah Barakah and Dr. Hussain Hamid Hussain (Egypt), Senator Qazi Abdul Latif and MNAs Maulana Wasi Mazhar Nadvi and Mawalana Moeenuddin Lakhvi (Pakistan).
 Mavian a Wasi Maihar Nadvi read a resolution adopted by the Ulema delegation. The resolution paid tribute to the determination, sacrifices and enthusiasm of the Afghan Mujahideen, which has stopped the Communist ideological advance upon the Muslim world.
 The delegation also lauded the spirit of hundreds of thousands of Afghans, who have been compelled to emigrate to save their religious values, culture and civilization.