AFGHANews Vol7, No 16, August 15,1991, page ©
‘Wisdom
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
the sages
Character, not appearance determines man's quality
I was told once of a king’s son who was short and ugly, while his toothers were tall and good-looking. One day his father cast a glance of distaste at him. The boy intuitively caught the despising glance and said: "Someone who is short and intelligent is better than someone who is tall and stupid; it is often not quantity, but quality that matters. Did you hear what the thin man said to a fat fool? An Arab stallion may be delicate but it is none the less better than a stable full of donkeys!"
His father laughed and all the courtiers followed suite. But his brothers were mortally offended. A man's qualities and faults are hidden until he speaks out Do not think that the thicket is safely empty; there may be a leopard sleeping among the bushes.
At that time, I was told, dangerous enemies rose to oppose the king. When the two armies met, the first to ride out into the field of battle was this boy. He said: "I am not one to show my back on the day of battle, though you may see my head rolling in the blood and dust. Whoever fights, risks his own life, but he who flees the battlefield, risks the life of the whole army."
With these words, he charged at the enemy and despatched several of their finest warriors. When he came into his father's presence, he bowed low and said: "Father, if you forgive my saying so, though you once despised me for being slight in stature^ yet on the day of battle, it is better to have a thin-waisted horse than a fatted calf!"
opens
It is said, the enemy had a large army and the king had only a few soldiers. Some of these began to flee. The boy shouted: "Men! Try your best, or else go and wear women's clothes!" The horsemen were stung by his words and attacked the enemy with sudden fury. That same day, they won a decisive victory.
The king embraced his son and kissed him on the head and on the eyes. His respect and affection for him grew day by day until he proclaimed him his heir-apparent.
His brothers were consumed with envy and decided to get rid of him by poisoning his food. His sister saw what they were doing from an upper window and slammed the shutters to warn her toother. He understood and would not eat and said: "If a brilliant man should die, no worthless fool can ever take his place!
When the king heard of this, he summoned his sons and boxed their ears as was due. Then he appointed each one of them as governor of one of the outlying districts of his kingdom, so that there should be no further cause for strife. As is said: "Ten paupers can happily sleep under one blanket, but two ambitous politicians can hardly fit in one country! If a man of God breaks bread, he shares half of it with the poor; but a ruler who conquers one country, . cannot wait to get his hands on the neighboring country.
in Herat!
The Kabul regime announced opening of. a university in Herat on August 2. According to Radio Kabul, 28 students began their studies in the Faculty of Heath at the new university There are no other faculties, classes or students. The Kabul regime has established similar mini-universities in Kandahar and in Mazar.
.....limit.huh.......
Cmdr. Afzali
From page (5)
Safiullah Afzali, heads the Islamic Organization of Women of Afghanistan. About 400 women are members of this organization. In addition to literacy and teaching of the Holy Quran, this organization promotes handicrafts like weaving carpets, tailoring and embroidery to enable families to earn their living through useful work.
Council's victories
From page (1)
Takhar deprived the regime of this source. The Kabul regime is already facing shortages of manpower.
• The victories have had a posi tive effect on the morale of Afghans, especially on those living in Badakhshan and Kunduz. They have become more optimistic than ever before about the liberation of their areas from regime control.
iMiiinimiNmim
ICRC man abducted north of Kabul
A member of the International Committee of the Red Cross has been kidnapped near Kabul, ICRC reported.
The kidnapped officer was Alexander Ghelew, 27, a Swiss national.
He was on a mission with an Afghan Red Cross worker to pick up an amputee for treatment when the incident happened about 60 kilometers north of Kabul. The local worker was set free.

S 1.. i 8
tn lifeBISIE^
ill, i


Bill

* j ^l-Al I .