AEGHANews Vol 4, No9, May 1,1960, Page?
   security post which resulted in the killing of some soldiers and officers, capturing seven Kalashinkov rifles and a heavy machine gun.
    Thirteen Mujahideen were injured during the attack.
   Herat
       The Mujahideen led by commander Mohammad Hassan ambushed a ORA column in Baiuch village of Pars! district on March 23. As a result of the ambush 15 soldiers were killed and five others wounded .
      A Mujahideen commander called Ghuiam Sakhi was killed during the operation.
   Uruzgan
   The Mujahideen attacked a DRA newly-established post in Sarchasbma area on March 23. The Mujahideen captured some weapons in the operation. The report is silent about the casualties of the two sides.
   Kunduz
       Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the polling stations in the provincial capital on March six and disrupted the process.
      It is believed an unknown number of communist officers were killed.
       in retaliation, the enemy used long-range artillery from Kunduz airport and Bala Hisar against the villages around the city controlled by the Mujahideen. A number of houses were destroyed and one Mujahid was killed.
      The Mujahideen also attacked an enemy convoy and captured five trucks loaded with about 7 tons of wheat on April 1. The convoy was going from Shair Khan port towards Kabul when it was attacked near AH Abad, seven kilometers from Kunduz city.
      The Mujahideen attacked a
 DRA post and killed six soldiers while capturing some arms and ammunition on March 28. The attack, led by commander Habibuilah. took place in Qasem All village, two kilometers West of the city of Kunduz.
 Faryab
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at launched attacks against communist centers in Maimana city which resulted in the killing of 13 soldiers and wounding of some others. A police station was also destroyed in the fighting on March 20.
    In another incident, the Mujahideen attacked and destroyed two DRA posts killing 20 soldiers and wounding some others. The attack took place in Qara Shafchi near Maimana. The Mujahideen lost two men and three others were wounded In the fighting •
 Yamgan valley undergoes positive changes
   THE COUNCIL of commanders and elders of Yamgan valley has approved the reorganizational work started there.
   To increase the military performance of the resistance the Mujahideen in the area were organized into local combat units who will see training.
   Officials of the financial, judicial and cultural committees were appointed in a meeting of the elders, religious scholars and Mujahideen which was convened for this purpose.
    This has been stated in a letter sent by Aryan Poor, the chief administrator of the area, to Prof. Rabbani leader of Jami'at Istami.
    According to Aryan Poor eight religious schools (Madrassa) have been opened in the valley and 11 other schools will be opened in the near future.
    The Mujahideen have taken measures to secure the transportation routes passing through Reran and Menjan.
    Yamgan valley is a strategically important area which was liberated in 1979. The famous lapis mine located in this valley has had a good effect on the economy of the people and provides a modest financial source for the Mujahideen
    Reran Garrison had created many problems for the people in the area and was posing a threat to the back of the Mujahideen. Last December the garrison was captured.Since the elimination of Keran garrison the refugees from the area have been rehabilitated.
    By the consolidation of Yamgan valley the Mujahideen are able to attack the enemy garrison in Jurm and Baharak.
    Jami'at has appointed Sayed Najmuddin as the military commander of Yamgan and adjoining Vardoj valleys*
                                  Soviets leave two Northern bases
   SOVIETS have withdrawn their troops from Baharak sub-district of Badakhshan and Rustaq district of Takhar provinces. Mujahideen sources reported.