 AFGHAN NEWS_VOL. II_WL22_110M13M PAGE 4
 7- So far SO civilians have been killed.
 8- As a result of continous fighting more people are becoming refugees.
 9- Thanks Allah the morale of the Mujahideen is high.
                                         BABAKHSHAN PROVINCE
 19/8/1986. Puppet troops attacked Mujahideen positions in Jurm district They were supported by the airforce and long range artillery. After losing 18 men in 12 hours of battle the enemy retreated.Mujahideen casualties are not mentioned in the report.
 9/8/1986. Mujahideen attacked the enemy post in Qala i-Goabad in Jurm with RPG-2s and 7s. Twelve puppets were killed and seven others wounded.
 4/10/1986. Mujahideen attacked a KHAD post in Jurm. 21 communists were killed and 9 others wounded. 25 Ak-47s and some ammunition were siezed from the enemy.
 9/10/1986. The enemy airforce heavily bombed some villages in Jurm district as a result of which a large number of houses were destroyed, harvests set on fire and cattle killed.
 10/10/1986. In an ambush set by the Mujahideen, 2 puppet soldiers were killed and 4 others captured.
 After these clashes, attacks on the enemy continued and in period of one month the casualties (dead and injured) of the enemy mounted to 84.
 The report which was written by Haji Zabet the commander of the area gives no figure for the casualties of the Mujahideen and the local civilians. It should be mentioned that recieving news from this area is very difficult. This is due to the distance and road blocks because of the long winter.
                                             KUNAR PROVINCE
 14/10/1986. Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the provincial capital of Kunar with 107 mm. rockets Mujahideen fired 200 rounds in five days. According to the report most of the rounds hit the targets and caused damage to the enemy. However there are no details of the enemy casualties . The enemy retaliated by bombing the area. The operation was lauched under the command of khan Jan the commander of Jami'at in Marawar valley.
                                ALMIGHTY ALLAH SAVED RABBANI
 An attempt to destroy the residence of Rabbani was foiled by the Peshawar police on October 28th. Three KHAD agents who were trying to plant a strong bomb in the residence of Prof. B.Rabbani, the leader of Jami'at Islami Afghanistan, were captured approaching the house. It was reported that the bomb was six Kg. in weight and was equipped with remote control system. The terrorist gang was composed of two engineers and one medical doctor who were all arrested by the security forces.
 These types of terrorist actions which are engineered by the Soviets to eliminate the Resistance leaders, have continued since the beginning of the war. What is new is the intensity of these types of missions. The new situation requires tight security measures by the Mujahideen parties and their close co-operation with the security forces of Pakistan to identify and capture the enemy agents.