AFGHANews Vol 5, No 21, November 1,1989, page @
Glimpses into the historic background of
Part (10)
The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
In previous parts we discussed different factors leading to the creation of Jabha-i-Nejat Midi Afghanistan. We also discussed something about the failure of this organization to achieve its aims and how it turned into an independent organization.
We talked about useful cooperation between Jabha and Jami'at and briefly discussed the unsuccessful attempts to unify different parties, and bow these efforts led to creation of new parties. Here, I discuss new efforts to bring unity among the Islamic parties and the role of Jami’at in these efforts.
At the beginning of 1979, some Afghans from within the parties and outside them had begun a series of discussions to bring unity among the parties. Several meetings of these people Look place. This led to the creation of Payman Ittihad Islami Mujahideen Afghanistan ( Covenant of the Islamic Union of the Mujahideen of Afghanistan). The following parties formed the new unity.
1-	Jami'at Islami (Prof. Rabbani)
2-	Jabha Milli (Prof. Mujaddidi)
3-	Harakat Inqelab (Mohammadi)
4-	Mahaz Milli (Gailani)
Hezb Islami Hikmatyar did riot participate in the Alliance despite efforts by some brothers. Prof. Sayyafs party did not exist at that time.
This attempt at unity also could not get the support of the constituent parties and very soon was dissolved.
Efforts to unite the Mujahideen continued. At that time Prof. Sayyaf, who had been released from the regime prison, came to Peshawar. He naturally joined Jami'at because he was the deputy of Prof. Rabbani in Kabul. He had kept in contact with us since then. He had a good position among the brothers in Jami'at, and members of Jami'at were delighted by his arrival in Peshawar.
In the meantime Hezb Islami (Maulawi Khalis) had also emerged as an independent party. Some brothers proposed that Prof. Sayyaf should get membership in Hezb (Khalis) so that he could be proposed for the leadership of the new union by the Khalis group.
They thought that since Hezb (Khalis) was newly formed, and Prof. Sayyaf had recently come to Peshawar, that the people from other parties
Memoirs of Dr. Tawana
might not be as sensitive towards them; his chance of success was great.
A council for the new union, in which all parties except Hezb (Hikmatyar) had participated, was formed. It was decided that each party should be represented by equal numbers of members in the council of Unity (seven member from each party). I, (Dr. Tawana), and Prof. Sayyaf were also members of this council, this union was called Islamic Union for the Liberation of Afghanistan.
It was decided that the president of the union and his deputy should be chosen from among the members of the council. As a result of an election within the council. Prof. Sayyaf became the [Resident and Prof. Mujaddidi vice president of the union.
Contrary to what some Mujahideen and refugees in Peshawar thought, the unity did not end the status of the parties. Resources should have been given to all the parties in the unity, the fob lowing parties formed the Islamic Union for Liberation of Afghanistan:
1-	Jami'at, headed by Prof. Rabbani
2-	Hezb Islami, headed by Khalis
3-	Harakat, headed by Mohammadi
4-	Jabha, headed Ptof. Mujaddidi
5-	Mahaz, headed by Gailani
But this union, like the previous ones, die} not provide a united military command to fight against the enemy. Fighting fronts did not adopt the program of unity and the union did not take any steps to bridge the gap between different fighting fronts. But new differences between some groups and closeness between others arose, which were a product of different factors which I will not discuss here.
The new development was the concentration of resources in new hands. In the past the resources were distributed by different groups and the accumulation of these resources paved the road for creation of a new party, which was called the Islamic Union for the Liberation of Afghanistan, headed by Prof. Sayyaf.
. It was decided that elections for choosing a new [Resident would be held at the end of one year, and it was also decided the decisions regarding important issues should taken by the Council of the Union. These two things did not happen. The Council rarely met and elections were not held at the end of one year.
One and half years after the formation of the Union, Prof. Sayyaf, instead of holding elections, asked the parties to dissolve themselves and accept his leadership. Younus Khalis accepted this idea and the Executive Council of Jami'at also accepted it When 1 was the acting president of Jami'at, in the absence of Prof. Rabbani, Prof. Sayyaf asked my opinion about his proposal of dissolving Jami'at. I rejected the idea for two reasons:
Firstly, I did not have the authority to take such a step in the absence of Prof. Rabbani. Secondly, Jami'at could only have been dissolved if other parties did the same.
By dissolving only Jami'at, total unity would not have been achieved and transfer of the belongings of Jami'at to Prof. Sayyaf could not create the desired unity. This would have resulted in a change of leadership of Jami'at which we were not in favor of.
A group of people who had close relations with Prof. Sayyaf asked me to sign a paper confirming my desire for unity. Some Mujahideen and refugees also had signed the paper. I signed the paper but the unity we wanted did not come about.
1 remember well that relations between'Jami’at and Prof. Sayyaf deteriorated and this was the result of the separatist moves by Prof. Sayyaf and his close friends. I called these moves separatist because until that time he was a member of Jami'at Islami, considered himself a sincere student of Professor Rabbani and was a member of the Executive Council of Jami’at. He attended the meetings of the Executive Council of Jami'at regularly and was present in that meeting which voted in favor of total unity among the Mujahideen parties.
Some of the separatist moves of Professor Sayyaf were:
-A large number of people had gathered around him and he paid the rent of their houses and their expenditure.
-He appointed these people in key position in different committees.
I saw the clanger of these developments as the following:
creation of a new party and separation of some Jami'at members to join the new party. It was not a pleasarlt development for the sincere members of Jami’at It also would open a new dispute within the resistance and could not
Turn to page (5 )
______________________________:________