  AFGHAN-NEWS...JjQLJl_____$8206____WMML^ PACE 2
 We hope that all those who have a heart to feel and an ear to hear will do something urgently .The situation requires quick action and real emergency relief work.
                             STMINJ^m^AIlON FHOM.MRWAX
 On Monday 27th of July a students delegation from Norway met with officials from jamiat Isiami Afghanistan to get first hand information about the situation in Afghanistan. The delegation was the representative of 170,000 high school and vocational school students who launched a campaign of one day work each year. The money earned through this t compaign goes to an educational project in a third world country. In 1985 they collected 2.01 million dollars.
 This year it has been decided that the fund will be spent in support of educational programs in the liberated areas of Afghanistan and the young Afghan Refugees in Pakistan. This campaign of one day work’ is not just collecting funds but a way of getting more information about the specific country and informing those students involvledl
 Afghan News'beheves that this type of work is very useful. We congratulate the Norwegian students for their humanitarian gesture and for choosing Afghanistan for the current year s campaign. This typeof workcan be a good example for the students in the rest of the world. It should be added that the cause of Afghanistan has grass-roots support in Norway.
MTOMIM MmiHM
                                         PAKTIA PROVINCE
 18/7/1986. A report from Urgoon district says that the Mujahideen attacked an enemy post in Razme Hola area. The fighting continued for 12 hours. At least 15 soldiers and 4 military officers were killed. Two Mujahideen were martyred and 6 others wounded.
 27/7/1986: In a series of incidents between Mujahideen and Soviet-DRA forces . Mujahideen captured 6 enemy posts in Jaji. Eleven militias were killed. One heavy machinegun, four Ak-47s, 100 anti-personnel mines and a large quantity of ammunition were captured . Five Mujahideen were wounded.
                                       HERAT PROVINCE
 23/7/1986; Mujahideen from jamiat in Pashtoon Zarghoon district launched attacks on the enemy posts in Mehrabad, Boryabaf and Pushtabar areas and captured ail of them. Three hundred militia surrendered to the Mujahideen with their weapons.Five militiamen were killed and two Mujahids were martyred during the operation.