fiPDHRHhCH8V0L.nl, MO. 13, 1/7/ 1907 PfiCC 5
 instead of letting them join their families they were pressganged into the puppet army and then taken to the battlefields The age of some of the captured soldiers did not exceed 15 years.
 The attack against the Mujahideen in Arghendab was planed to be a long one. The attacks vere launched one after the other but Mujahideen fought the enemy very bravely. Farmers in the area suffered from the attack the most. They lost their crop and fruit trees.
 The lack of trained surgeon was a problem. A large number of wounded Mujahideen whose lives could be saved by minor surgery died due to lack of proper medicine and absence of doctors in the area.
                              OFFENSIVE AGAINST JAJI CAME TO AN END
                                                                     I
 The enemy launched a big offensive against Jaji on May 20 which lasted for twenty four days. The purpose of the enemy ires to block the transportation lines of the' Mujahideen in Char Chatal and secure a strategic peak celled Khosh Beram. The enemy ground forces proceeded to the area from Gardeaz, the provincial capital of Paktia province and Ghazni. Another force was launched their attack from Hengarhar province. The force coming from Hesarak area wanted to capture the high ground first and then the tnemy forces were supposed to capture Khar Chatal and make a permanent post there. Fortunately the enemy forces coming from Nangarhar faced the resistance of the Mujahideen and could not reach the area which it was supposed to capture. The enemy successive attacks against these two points was foiled by the Mujahideen.
 Mujahideen artillery units did a good job in repulsing the enemy attacks. Mujahideen AA guns forced the enemy jets to fly high and make their bombs less effective.
 The enemy lost an estimated number 550 men ( most of them ware Soviet). 3 helicopters (two of the shot down by RPG-7), 10 jets and about 150 different types of vehicles including tanks. APCs. oil-tankers and trucks and 5 ammunition dumps.
 Mujahideen lost 75 men. Unity among the parties present there ( jamiat, Ittihad and Hezb Islami) was very good. Morel of the Mujahideen was high and that of the enemy quite low. Scores of DRA soldiers lost their lives trying to cross minefields around them to join the resistance. Mujahideen from all over Afghanistan were participating along with the local people in the war against the enemy.
 Three party leaders. Prof. Sayyaf. Prof B.Rabbani and Eng. Bikmatyar visited the area. Prof. Sayyaf spent most of the 24 days of the offensive in the area.
 The medical situation was not very good. Jamiat and Hezb medical teams were not active while the Ittihad field hospital vas doing most of the work.
 Fighting continued during Eid days. Vomen in the refugee camps close to the border cooked the food and sent it to the Mujahideen in the fronts. There were more volunteers to fight than was necessary for the war Generally speaking the performance of the Mujahideen in jaji was excellent and the enemy retreated after losing too many men without achieving any of its military aims.
                                                A GREAT LOSS
 Mullah Malang, Mujahideen commander in (jandahar belonging to Khalis group, was martyred on June 14. This brave commander was active in Qandahar city and caused great problems for the Soviet. His death was a great loss for all the Mujahideen. May Almighty Allah forgive him and grant his Soul with eternal peace.
                                                    •* * * -* -*