AFGHAN HEUS UOL.III, HO.10,        15/5/1987,PAGE 2
 From the very beginning the Mujahideen were concerned with the sorry state of education inside Afghanistan and in the refugee camps. It took them a while, however, until they were able to take practical measures. J.I.A. was the first Mujahideen organization to focus on the issue of education both in the refugee camps and in the liberated areas. In its headquarters in Peshawar it established a department of education within its cultural committee in 1979. The first Madrasa (named "Abu Hanifa" after the great Muslim jurist) was established in the fall of 1980 and the first high school (called "Mujahid") was established in 1981. Now the education department has grown into a separate committee with several departments of its own. In Pakistan, it has 207 Madrasas for elementary education in which more than 27,000 students study The number of secondary level Madrasas and schools come to 20 with over 8,000 students attending. Moreover, it has 16 Madrasas for memorization of the Holy Quran with about 800 students.
 Inside Afghanistan, the first schools in the liberated areas were established in Panjshir in 1980. They were followed by schools in other parts of the country. In 1986 the educational committee of J.I.A. launched a massive plan to co-ordinate and expand the educational institutions in the liberated areas
 It is important to note that both boys and girls attend the schools in the liberated areas and in the refugee camps. They receive education both in "religious" sciences and in "modern" sciences.
 Mujahideen are trying their best to promote education and to develop educational institutions The results of their efforts, however, are far from sufficient to meet the future needs of the Afghan nation, Schools inside the country and in the refugee camps face severe shortages of educational materials and trained teachers. These problems have caused the schools to remain mostly at the elementary level, especially in the liberated areas, Although a number of humanitarian organizations are working in the field of education, much more assistance is needed to overcome the above-mentioned problems and to raise the level of education to secondary school and high school.
 There is also urgent need for higher education for Afghan youth The Afghans who have gone as refugees to Western countries rarely find the chance to attend institutions of higher education in those countries A number of Afghan students study in Pakistan universities. There number, however, is small; and there are numerous problems for the refugees to enroll in a Pakistani university, So far there is only one educational institution at the university level run by the Mujahideen organizations. The number of its students does not exceed a few hundred Thus, a concerted effort by all those who are interested in an independent and prosperous Afghanistan is needed to overcome this problem.
 In spite of all the difficulties, however, we hope that soon will come the day when the Afghan people demonstrate the potentials of Islam in building a great civilization in the present age — as they are demonstrating its potentials in fighting an aggressive superpower today.
                                           A DRUG CASH DESTROYED
 On April 23, 1987 Mujahideen destroyed a heroin cash with ground-to-ground rockets in Rabat, inside Afghanistan at the corner where the Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan borders meet. All the heroin, which weighed more than 100 Kilograms were set on fire. The smugglers,however, managed to escape towards the Soviet occupied areas The incident shows that the smugglers had some kind of arrangements with the communists in the arua. Afghan News had reported earlier that the puppet militias along the borders of Iran and Pakistan are involved in drug trafficking.