flFDHfN tEM0 VCL. Ill, HO. 14, «ft)              ***  1
 D- COALITION GOVEUQfEMT AMI ZAUA KEAN
 The puppet regime directly and Soviets indirectly have said that, they are ready to share pover vith the opposition forces and have said that Zahir Khan can play a role. These hints generated a lot of optimism and some people thought that the political
 solution is close.
 About a coalition government vith the communist Mujahideen said that it vas impossible for them to take part in a government vhen communists vere part of it. The people have rejected communists role and Islam and communism can not live together. Soviet knev this vhen they told their puppets to offer such a thing. They vanted to put Mujahideen in a bad position for rejecting another so-called “peace proposal".
                                                                                                                  «
 Zahir Khan is a more controversial issue than it seems to the outsiders. The majority of Afghan resistance groups feel that his role as a leader has past. This is due to his past mistakes, veak personality and the changes vhich Afghan society has undergone. The people vho have seen the ex-King recently, have got the impression that he is' ignorant about the present situation in Afghanistan and is not ready to take the trouble of organizing and planning for his possible return. He is waiting for an international invitation to go to Afghanistan apd expects the people to be obedient. Vali Khan, Zahir Khan s son-in-lav is the real actor vho vents to use the name of the ex-king for his ovn ambitions.
 E- CHANGE OF.NAME AMI MUIII-FAHTT SYSTEM
 Najib is talking about the change of the name of the regime.Under the directives from the Soviets, he vants to drop the Democratic vord and change DRA (Democratic Republic of Afghanistan ) to RA ( Republic of Afghanistan): This vill not bring the regime any good at home. Khalis, the current spokesman of the alliance, rightly has said that a change of saddle does not change the nature of the donkey.
 More interesting is the idea of multi-party system in an occupied country Najib after announcing this program put one condition and that vat loyalty of the parties to the Soviets If the people vere loyal to the Soviet, vhy did they fight so long. No matter hov much the Soviets repair the old and rusty engine of the regime and introduce n6st spare parts in it this regime does not do its job the vay Soviets expect because it is imported from outside to an environment vhich acts against it.
 F- GENEVA TALKS
 Geneva is a place vhere Pakistan is meeting vith the puppet regime to find a solution to the problem of Afghanistan. The Geneva format is veak and does not include the principal factors in the conflict and does not touch the important issue of the right for self determination. Although the sides have made progress in a time frame The more they are close to a timetable the more practical problems vill surface. There is no hope that the Geneva present format can bring any solution acceptable to the people of Afghanistan.
 G. SOVIETS LATE DIPLOMATIC OFFENSIVE
 Soviets have intensified their activities in the diplomatic field. The restrictions vhich Western countries had put in their relations vith the Soviet have been lifted. Normal trade and normal diplomatic relationship is re-established. Soviet’s position in MAM is good because the three successive chairmen of NAM; Cuba. India and Zimbabve are friendly to that country and do not condemn the Soviet invasion of a non-aligned Afghanistan India is the biggest trade partner of the puppets outside Soviet block and Zimbabve is expanding its relations vith the puppet regime. Of course “Comrade Castro’ is Najib's uncle. This type of situation and presence of the regime in that organisation and continued Soviet effort to buy off or intimidate more countries to change their