firawi HEUS UOL.IV, HO. 5:, 5 .73/1V80, PRBE 8
 All the rmiors fiend allegations to the contrary" are totally false and baseless.
                   INTERUlEtU ILUiH CQMMRNDER RLRUI000IN
 Pol loving is an interview with Alawoodin who is the Deputy of Ismael Khan of Herat province. Alawoodin has recently paid a visit to Pakistan, Peshawar. Excerpts:
 & Your background, please ?
 A. I an Alawoodin who was in Herat before the war started. Isnael Khan and I were both military officers in the Division i? based in Herat. Ismael Khan was an officer in the .Army Defence and I was in the Signal Company. Se knew each other from the time we were in the military school and Military College in Kabul.
 *?hen Taraki, the first Russian puppet, took power in 19?S, the people of Herat revolted against that puppet Communist Regime in March of 19?9. We supported them, we joined the people and the whole Division fell in the hand of the masses for three days.
 Hundreds of soldiers along with their weapons joined the people and that was an historic event, which I am sure, history will keep it in its memory for centuries.
 The tanks .and gunships appeared and thousands of the people were martyred or wounded and the rest were scattered. At that time, everything was new. ¥e were all full of faithful emotions; the people hated the puppets and the piq?pets hated the people. Later, with about 15 to 20 people, vs started to mobilize people into a better organizational direction. It was in 1981 that the Jamiat leadership appointed Ismael Khan as the Amir (head) and me as the Deputy of the Herat Mujahideen.
 Q. Who is Herat important for the Russians?
 A. (a) Torgundi supply route, one of the most important Russian supply lines in Afghanistan, runs through Herat supplying at least 6 provinces in the South-Western part of Afghanistan. (b> It is neighboring Soviet Russia and Iran, (c) It does not take more than twc. hours for the Soviet tanks to riach Mashhad (Iran city) and may not take more than two days to reach Tehran from Herat. <d) Shindand Airbase (one of the strongest military airbases in Afghanistan) is located on ttie Herat frontier border which is not meant just for Herat but it easily threatens the Gulf states. (e> Herat has a relatively good organization ar.d a united front under Ismael Khan which has always been a threat to the invading forces, (f) Baluchistan is a strategically important target of the Soviets which could be achieved if (God forbids) Herat is pacified.
 d What about Soviet tactics?
 A. It is more or less the same as in other parts of Afghanistan. In Herat, they mostly use longer range artillery and air bombardments. Herat is a flat land.
 Q. What about Russian proposals for a withdraws I?
 A. It is difficult to trust them. But we watch it carefully.