Arrr'TT AMmc Vni f is.	fo 13, July 1,1989, page Q
AIaJIIAINCwS VOl J,	
AF G HANews	the world community. Let's make use of our precious time to intensify military efforts against the enemy because communists know the language of strength. The Mujahideen have the potential ability to defeat the regime militarily. The shortcomings of the Mujahideen are curable and they can be corrected while taking action, the way Afghans learned while fighting the war against the Soviet Union.
Editorial	
Mujahideen need major military victories The Mujahideen need a major military victory to end the present situation which is developing against them. Military victory is needed to keep the morale of the Mujahideen high and give hope to the people of Afghanistan that the communist regime can be defeated. Victory in the battlefield is needed to assure the international supporters of the Mujahideen that the resistance is capable of defeating the regime and twinging peace to Afghanistan. Outsiders will only support a winner. The Russians need to be told that the communist regime's fall is inevitable and that country, should not prolong the war unnecessarily by giving arms and money to the Kabul regime. The people on the regime side also must be shown that their resistance is useless and they have to change sides. These aims can be achieved through a ma-joT military victory. The Mujahideen experience has shown that they will be taken seriously internationally and internally when they are militarily strong. At the beginning of the invasion, they had problems in persuading the outside world to support them. When they showed their strength in the war against the Soviets, the situation changed. The present situation is in need of a good example to expose the regime's weakness and the strength of the Mujahideen. Becaifse of lack of progress in the battlefield the enemy is getting more confident and the supporters of the Mujahideen are becoming impatient and nervous. If the Mujahideen do not score a military achievement they will be confronted with political options which may riot be suitable to them. The political options must always be kept open but the Mujahideen should go to the conference, table when they have an upper hand in the battlefield. The Mujahideen need time to win the war. Developments after the Soviet troop withdrawal showed that the war has a protracted nature. The supporters of Afghanistan can not impose a time limit on die Mujahideen for winning the war. The time needed to win the war will be determined by resources, terrain, climatic conditions, tactics, experience in fighting and enemy strength. Likewise, setting a time limit for continuation of aid is a mistake which will encourage the Soviet and the regime to continue fighting. There have been signs of escalation of the war in Afghanistan in the past few days. The fighting season has started and major fighting will take plaoe during this summer. There is a need for some commanders to take the lead to break the present stalemate situation. Jami'at Island which has capable commanders and organized fronts and controls strategic areas in Afghanistan can play the historic role of leading the war against the communist regime. But Jami'at needs support of like-minded parties to play its role effectively. Party politics may prevent some people from lending a hand to their fellow Mujahideen in a major drive against the regime, but the Mujahideen in the battlefields realize the need for such cooperation. As in the past most of the commandos will support fighting against the regime. Since the military needs have become more important than the political efforts, the Mujahideen leaders must work harder to support the war efforts of the commandos. Unfortunately the leaders spend 90% of their time debating the form of the interim government and the division of ministerial posts among the parties and other related issues. Once the enemy is defeated Afghans can debate political issues as long as they wish in their country without being a burden on neighboring countries and	Child of war From page (7) . Nesar was afraid to be conscripted into the puppet army. He and his family did not want to fight in support of the communist regime. More than that few of the conscripts returned alive. Most of them were either killed or maimed in the notorious cause. He had lost a cousin who was put into the army by force. Nesar went into hiding. He could not get out of Kabul easily because the city is surrounded by security posts. Kabul is like an island surrounded with several belts of security posts. In order to pass these posts one needs a great amount of money. For seven months he was cut of the outside world. Only close relatives knew about him. If the news of his hiding place had reached regime agents he would have been put into the army and his family would have been punished for hiding their son. There are thousands of people like Nesar who want to escape the rule of the communists. Some succeed others fail. A large number of them are in hiding and hope to find the right contact and enough money to escape to freedom. Regime missile kills 20 A Kabul regime Scud missile hit a Mosque on Thursday west of Jalalabad killing 20 Mujahideen and civilians, reported the Afghan Media Resource Center (AMRC). Twelve women and children died instantly when the missile hit the mosque in Fatehabad village in Surkhrod district where they were sleeping. The victims were from Kukruk village in Surkhrod district and were going to Pakistan to escape fighting and food shortages. The missile also killed eight Mujahideen.