AFGHANews Vol7, No 6, March 15,1991, page @
FromThe Battlefields
Faryab Province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at, under the command of Sayyed Alauddin, killed three regime soldiers and wounded one when they attacked them with heavy weapons on February 26.
The enemy retaliated by firing artillery and rockets, injuring two civilians and destroying two houses. Alauddin operates close to Maimana, the provincial capital of Faryab.
Kabul Province
The Mujahideen have detonated bombs at 25 enemy targets in Kabul in the five days beginning February 20, Hindukush News Agency reported.
The targets included the Ministry of Information, a building of the Youth Organization, the Soviet and Vietnamese embassies and military and WAD installations. The explosions were designed to avoid civilian casualties.
Three people were killed and one armored car was destroyed. The explosions forced the Kabul regime to intensify security measures by deploying additional armed men in the streets and setting up checkposts.
Meanwhile . students' of Kabul University staged a demonstration to press their demands for improved living conditions. The regime has deployed a large number of armed troops on the university campus. The students used bullhorns to broadcast then-demands
Sources report that a group of amputees entered Macrorayan area, a housing complex in Kabul, and beat some of its residents. They were demanding housing facilities. The amputees have lost their limbs in the war against the Mujahideen.
Baghlan Province
Five Mujahideen were killed and six injured when the enemy launched a
ground and air attack against their position in Hasantal area of Baghlan on February 29.
The Mujahideen resisted the enemy and fighting continued as this report was filed.
Balkh Province
Twenty-five armed militiamen headed by Khalid Tahir surrendered, to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Paikan Dara of Sholgar District on February 21. .
Two Mujahideen were killed and two were wounded as a result of mine explosion.
Herat Province
•	The Mujahideen of Jami'at captured 12 enemy personnel, including two doctors and four drivers, in Kamar Kulagh area on Herat-Islam Qala road on March 3. Five enemy trucks were set on fire in the ambush.
•	The Mujahideen from Jami'at killed one enemy soldier, wounded five and captured two in Kabtor-Rood area of Chist District on March 1.
The areas was liberated and Mujahideen seized five Kalashnikov rifles and some ammunition. Two Mujahideen and two civilians were killed and 11 Mujahideen were wounded.
Nimroz Province
Two militiamen were killed and five wounded when the Mujahideen attacked them in Chakhansoor District on March 1.
Badghis Province
More than 100 militiamen led by Abdurrahman Khan joined the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Furstan area on 29 of February, bringing with them 80 Kalashnikov rifles, nine machine-guns, three rocket launchers and large quantities of ammunition.
Likewise, five militiamen and their commander defected to the Mujahideen in Aab Kamari area bringing with them six guns.
The above reports are confirmed by Ismail Khan who has radio link with the area.
Kandahar Province
A Mujahideen group of Raees Abdul Wahid clashed with regime mili tiamen who set an ambush for them in Lalak-o-Zark area of Mai wand District on February 26.
Eight militiamen of Jabar Khan were killed, and the rest fled. Three Mujahideen were killed and five were injured.
Ghor Province
•	Eleven armed soldiers surrendered to the Mujahideen of Mawlawi Musa, Jami'at commando- in Chikhcharan on March 3.
•	The Mujahideen of Jami’at captured three enemy soldiers and seized 40 guns in two days of fighting in Chikhcharan on February 23. The report does not give any figure for the casualties of the enemy.
Farah Province
•	The Mujahideen killed four militiamen and destroyed one truck on February 16 in Aab Khurma area, on Herat-Shindand road.
•	Fighting between two militia groups of the Kabul regime in Kalsak area has left 45 dead and 43 wounded from both sides. Fighting between them continued as of February 17.
Hundreds killed in recent floods
The recent floods in southwest Afghanistan caused a lot of death and destruction. Here are details of losses, in some districts controlled by the Mujahideen:
•	In Baghran District, Helmand Province, 50 people were killed 1300 houses, 17 mosques and 250 shops were destroyed.
•	In Arghandab District, Kandahar Province, 106 people were killed and 435 were injured. The floods destroyed 1230 houses, 76 mosques and 176 vineyards. More than 650 animals were also killed.
•	In Panjwaie District, Kandahar Province, 400 houses woe destroyed.
•	In Taiwara District, Ghore Province, 60 houses were destroyed and 20 people were killed.