AFGHANews Vol 8r No 12, June 15, 1992, page @
Foreign Ministry rejects allegations of Amnesty
The Islamic government has refuted allegations of torture and summary execution of political opponents.
The London-based Amnesty International had appealed to the new government to safeguard human rights, and quoted reports of killings of officials of the former Soviet-backedj'overament, torture, and attacks fo minority Sikhs and Hindus.
Responding to the appeal, deputy foreign minister Hamcd Karzai said some of Amnesty's allegations were unsubstantiated, while other abuses had been committed during the open warfare between rival factions lhal fol-
lowed the overthrow of Najibullah.
Mr. Karzai said the government had made no arrests on political grounds since taking power.
He said the government knew nothing of incidents reported by Amnesty International in which hand grenades were allegedly thrown into the homes of Sikhs and Hindus, adding that it condemned such actions.
The AmncsLy report cited the beating and shooting to death of an official of the former government in his office by Mujahideen and quoted a report that 40 members of the old security forces were killed after being taken prisoner.
Save Afghanistan's honor
From page (4)
mcnl's political enemies.
The formation of a combined force lo lake charge of the security of Lhc city must be a priority for all the Mujahideen parlies. Once such a force is formed, lhc bulk of the Mujahideen should be made to leave Kabul and stationed in bases outside the city.
Subversive clcmcms and criminals must be expelled from among the Mujahideen groups.
A ban must be imposed on firing in the air because it kills and injures innocent people and wastes ammunition. Firing in the air is a major concern of the people of Kabul.
Kabul’s leaders ought to pay attention to security problems instead of trying to prolong- their office terms by forming new alliances. Their failure lo address these dangers is destroying the image of the Islamic government. Moreover, it makes the outside world reluctant to render economic assis-
Masood releases Russian POW
lance. The UN and other donors who might finance Afghanistan’s reconstruction will do so only when they arc sure that the lives and property of their workers arc safe.
Afghans have a worldwide reputation for hospitality and tolerance towards non-Muslim minorities. They have earned an international reputation for their marvelous Jehad against the tyranny of communism. This honor must be protected at all costs.
The Mujahideen should not allow criminals and saboteurs to damage their reputation and harm their national interests. They should strike at such elements with an iron hand.
This will be possible only if the party leaders develop a sense of urgency and act together to improve matters. Delay could damage the Islamic revolution beyond repair.
Mohammad Es'haq
A Russian prisoner of war in Afghanistan was freed by the Defense Minister, Ahmad Shah Masood, after five years of captivity on May 4 in Kabul.
Sergei Fateev, 24, was handed over to Russian diplomats in Kabul. Later, he was flown home to Siberia in the former Soviet Union.
Falccv's handover marked the ful-' filmcnt of a promise made by Masood to visiting Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev.
Fateev said at the handover cere-
mony that he had been captured by the Mujahideen in 1987 after a mine exploded under his tank, killing three comrades and wounding him.
"I am a Muslim now. The Mujahideen treated me like a brother, I was very happy with them," Fateev said, but added: "I am very happy to be going home."
Speaking fluent Farsi, learned from his captors, he said he had been held in a mountain post in northern Afghanistan with two other Russian ^prisoners who had also converted to Islam.
'; The Lead'er^jp.; Council pf tSxie • Islamic-; goyerh^	April-' 20.:
formally |dissolvcd fthe; Afghan Interim government. (AIG) which ^s.:fbrm*d :iw$^
This was stated !by Prof.
Burhanuddin Rabbaiii, leaderi pf Janii’at: :Island - while:- .talking'
ATI.; Th is
meeting of Mujahideen leaders and reprCS(?n tad i groups. •
More than 35 countries have recognized the Islamic government of Af^hanisianAT	Pakistan,
Iran, .Turkcy^-^abch; Ar^iaAlitisisia^ China, the EEC: countries arid trie US,
.	-V"
and a	of.-.tiie Academy pf
Sciences ofy^fgh^^ ha$: idled at age of 66 In Kabul...	-
jBeEad
the Faculty of Science of Kabul University, the;, head ofihe Atomic Commission , advisor to the ministry of . education ;anfeiriembcr dflithe National/ Assembly ^vHi| dcath-fwas described by die Acadcmy l of Sciences as "a great loss.” .
V
Prof; :Rabbam;;^ visited Polygon, outside Kabul, to pray lor the souls of the many Afghans killed and buried iririnas^ graves-by Lhc communist regime:
He was accompanied by Mahmood Khan, the chief administrator of Panjshir; Fahim, the deputy head of lhc political committee of the
commanders; .
i A group 6f 28'disabled chitdferi firne
be treated. The treatment of war-wounded Afghan children is organized by the Peace Village, a German private organization. A delegation of the Peace Village visited Kabul sometime a&6 and met tri|;;l§ad of the Afghan Red Crescent Society, discussed ^matiorv
hospital id Kabul and Sending more disabled children for medical treatment in Germany. The Peace Village has been dealing with tfct;