AFGHANews Vol5, No 9, May 1,1989, page ©
Pakistan has agreed to allow three observation post for the UN monitoring team to be established along the borders with Afghanistan.
The announcement was made daring the first meeting of the Security Council by Pakistan's representative, Iqbal Akhund.
The three new posts are in addition to two sub-offices in Peshawar and Quetta.
The new posts axe established in Parachinar, Torkham and Chaman, the three Pakistani towns along the border
with Afghanistan
The two sub-offices and force posts were not envisaged by the Geneva accords signed on April 14,1988.
The United Nations has a 50 member observation team based in Islamabad and Kabul to monitor the implementation of the Geneva accords.
The demand for establishing new posts was made by the Kabul regime.
UN Secretary General welcomed the Pakistan decision of allowing UN observers to establish three posts. The regime, which had asked for establishment of eight posts was not satisfied with three.
The Mujahideen leaders have shown their displeasure ova: the new posts because the Afghan side of the border of the location of the three new posts is controlled by the Mujahideen. They also argue that while Soviets continue to send great quantities of arms and ammunition to the illegal regime of Najibullah, establishment of new posts along the border could not be justified.
If Pakistan had asked for establishing similar post inside Afghanistan to stop firing Send missiles and flow of arms and money to the terrorists inside Pakistan, the regime could not have done it because the regime control no territory along the border with Pakistan.
Mr. Shah Nawaz asked the UN to establish monitoring posts along the Soviet border and the major airports in Afghanistan.
The Security Council meeting, which began on April 11 ended without reaching any decision. The meeting was asked for by the Kabul regime to discuss what they called' Pakistan interference in the affairs of Afghanistan'.
Most of the members of the Council did not agree with a greater tide for die UN in Afghanistan.
Masood allows food to reach cities
Ahmad Shah Masood, the head of the Supervisory Council of the North, has said that his men had blocked Salang road for the enemy military convoys for more than two months but let food supply to pass.
When an enemy garrison was captured in Haijan of Salang on February 12, the enemy military convoys could not pass through.
The Mujahideen let the fuel and food supplies pass, after checking the trucks, to allow the people of the cities, especially the people in Kabul, to have essential commodities.
Several attempts by the regime to open the road failed. Hundreds of enemy soldiers were killed or wounded and hundreds either defected or were captured.
During these two months heavy fighting continued between the regime forces and the Mujahideen from Jami'aL
Ten kilometers of the road inside the Salang valley was controlled by the Mujahideen where they were checking the convoys in order to make sure they were not carrying weapons and ammunition. The Regime tried to smuggle ammunition in civilian trucks but the attempts were foiled.
Masood said that the enemy opened the road on April 14 after heavy fighting.
Closure of the Salang highway is an easy job for the Supervisory Council of the North, said Masood. It will be done whenever die Mujahideen feel the need for it Well-being of the civilian population is always a prime concern in any operation of this nature.
During the fighting in Jalalabad the enemy has not been able to bring any ammunition or weapon by the road from the Soviet Union. Road block in Salang is done by the local Jami'at Mujahideen from die Salang valley.
New effort to broaden interim government’s base
The Jami'at leader has gone to Teheran to persuade Iran-based Mujahideen parties to take part in the interim government
The interim government cabinet appointed a 4-member delegation headed by Prof. Rabbani to negotiate an agreement with Iran-based Mujahideen parties to facilitate their participation in die government
The eight-party coalition refused to take part in the interim government when the two sides could not agree about die number of seats for the Iran-based parties in the consultative council which elected die present government The interim government has proposed five ministerial posts for the Iran-based parties in the cabinet of the interim government which will have 28 ministers.
One of the Mujahideen command-ears, Abdul Haq, has accused Iran-based parties of negotiating a deal with the puppet regime in Kabul. This allegation was strongly rejected by the spokesman of die Iran-based parties.
If Prof. Rabbani is successful in persuading the Iran-based parties to accept the offer it will be a great Victory far the interim government
While the majority of the Peshawar-based parties are in favor of a
compromise with the ban-based parties for the sake of die greater interest of the country, a few parties show reservations.
While in Iran, Prof. Rabbani met with Iran president and officials of the ministry of foreign affairs.
The Soviet Union and Kabul regime try hard to prevent a deal between die two sides. The Soviet Union offered autonomy for Hazarajat region when Vorontsov visited Iran last November and the offer was turned down by the ban-based parties.
ban-based parties have control over Hazarajat area and have a presence around Kabul and some other cities.
Fresh refugees enter Pakistan
More than 60,000 new refugees have reached Pakistan since November 1988.
Pakistan Federal Minister for Frontier Regions giving the figure said that the new refugees have been accommodated in three new refugee camps.
Most of the refugees have fled from the Jalalabad area but refugees from other parts of Afghanistan including Kabul are also coming to Pakistan.