HFGIWII HEIIS UOI.IV, HO. 1,       I5/2/P3BO, \PRIiE 6
areas the economy is working reasonably well. Inns and bazaars have sprung up along the routes used by resistance fighters, army deserters and refugees. The new markets are often controlled by Mujahideen groups who also regulate the movement of grain and the price of goods and services such as transport, as well as setting up basic civil administration.
The new forms of civil administration are rudimentary, fragile, and, , like the communities they serve, vulnerable to military attack. But they may provide a basis for reconstruction of Afghanistan's economy and society as and when hostilities end.
The book also describes the efforts to send humanitarian assistance inside the country:
Efforts to assist people inside Afghanistan are much more controversial than aid to Afghans in exile. A handful of voluntary agencies work inside the country or run cross-border programmes from Pakistan, often operating clandestinely and under conditions' of great difficulty and danger. But such assistance is vital to help Afghans sustain themselves in or near their home areas - where they wish to stay - rather than fleeing abroad.
HEALTH
The impact of the agencies operating inside the country is limited in scale but tremendously important for the communities involved. A few clinics staffed by trained doctors and nurses have been set up to provide primary health care and medicament for war victims. Training of local health workers is emphasised, so that health care can be spread more widely. Hie skills of local tradition birth attendants or "wise women" are built upon to promote better health among women and children.        -
Afghan medical workers ate also being trained in exile to return to Afghanistan and help build up basic medical services. If maintained and. extended, their work will eventually contribute to the reconstruction of health services in a peaceful Afghanistan.
EDUCATION
Attempts are also being made to restore education.
Schooling has been severely disrupted by the war, and very few Afghan children have received systematic education over the last eight years. However, traditional Islamic schools have remained open in some areas, and about 200 schools are reported to have been set up in resistance-held areas with the help of aid agencies. Some of them have training programmes for local teachers so that eventually a wider range of subjects can be taught than the Koranic studie; which form the central focus of the Islamic schools.
ECONOMY
Efforts to rebuild. Afghanistan's devastated economy, especially it agriculture, are even more difficult to implement. A number of ai agencies have supplied seeds and other inputs to communities insid the country. Some have given cash to needy households to buy food i local markets, especially in war-torn districts where the need fo. emergency relief is the greatest.