AFGHAHews Vol 4, Mo 15, August 1.1988, Page 5
Prisoner tells of horrors in Communist prison
A Mujahkl who was | Herat Mujahideen, imprisoned for four f came recently to
years in the notorious jail of Puli Charkhi, ws.s set tree in reton for a sum of Afghanis four Lakh bribe to the regime's National Reconciliation Committee after doctors diagnosed fas nerve sickness due to serious torture as impossible and difficult to be treated in Afghanistan.
Nair Hussain!, a Mujahid from Herat was captured on February 1953 along with bj others, out of whom were seven Mujahid, in a siege by joint Soviet-BRA forces in Ghooryan district while they were returning from Iran to Herat,
He was taken to a EHAB center where he underwent serious tortures causing spinal fructure, nerve weakness and kidney infection.
Hussaini who is also a graduate from Herat Teacher’s Institution and had cooperation in the cultur al and publicity activities of
i
L
Peshawar. He said in an interview: "the members of KHAD gave evidence about my membership and affiliation to the jami’at party and as a result, the Deputy General Commander of the Soviet forces in the South Vest provinces, Mr. Gabel insistingly tried to get information from me about Soviet-captured soldiers;, ’weapons and Mujahideen bases in the area"
"After 13 month imprisonment in Herat, I was trsnsfered to Puli Charkhi in Kabul where I spent the rest of my prison term,*' he said.
Regarding prisoners condition and punishment in Puli Charkhi he said; "torture measures, such as beating, electric shocks, hang ing, sleep deprivation, removing nails and body hairs, burning body skins with cigarettes and solitary confinement are of the j common corporal j punishment every pri sonar undergoes."
1	”	If any of those
j (SHAD interrogators) who j are assigned to torture | can get confession or at | least prove a prisoner’s j conviction for death j sentence they will j receive financial reward 1 of a sum of Afghanis 5DGQ j from the Russian | advisors," described * Hussain!.
| He said, although after j the so-called National | Reconciliation campaign.
Najib announced three times amnesty for prisoners, in fact only a. small number of men and women who had no political charges were released whereas the prison cells are full of people aging 6070, women, cripples and those whose bodies sre paralysed and who have tost their nerve control due to serious torture. Ee added, every one or two weeks the prison rooms and ceils are searcec for pens, knives, scissor, paper and money (not more than Afgs.1000) which are not allowed to be kept.
another interesting point he said was that one month before a prisoner is supposed to be sentenced to death, he would receive good end fattening meals and encouragement for his release by KKAB officers. Afterwards, he would suddenly be taken to a special blood laboratory where all his blood is taken out to reserve for Russian-DRA casualties and his body is burned at a corner of the prison compound. He said more than 400 people inciting 12 women were killed this way in Balu 1366.
Hussaini also remembered the fate of two captured Mujahid photographers from Kushk district of Herat namely Abdul Zubadr and Boost Mohammad who were taken to Russia for 9 months and subsequently killed in Puli Charkhi prison after their return.