Vol 7, No 18	September	15,1991
US, USSR stop arms supply to Afghan sides
The Foreign Minsters of US and USSR signed an agreement in Moscow on September 13 ending supply of arms to both sides of die Afghan conflict from the beginning of the next year. They asked other countries to do the same. The two sides have agreed to take weapons of mass destruction out of Afghanistan.
Washington and Moscow expressed their support for a transitional period and formation of a neutral government that is capable to hold fair elections in the country.
Agreement on a negative symmetry was welcomed by Kabul. While Najib has put up a brave face, he must be worried about his future because his survival depended on Soviet military and financial assistance.
The Mujahideen leaders' reaction varied from expression rtf worry to welcoming of accord. Hikmatyar welcomed it because in his opinion it brings Americans interference in Afghan affairs to an end. Shia leaders welcomed the move, perhaps, because they were not direct recipients of the US aid. Khalis and Mujaddidi called it an unjust agreement because the Kabul had more weapons than the Mujahideen. Prof. Rabbani expressed doubts about Soviet compliance to the agreement Commander Masood compared the agreement with the Geneva Accords which was. used against die Mujahideen. Supporters of Zahir Shah who are not involved in fighting welcomed the agreement between Moscow and Washington.
Pakistan said arms cut must be part of an over all solution. The UN Secretary General welcomed the deal. Almost all sides believe that arms cut will not bring righting to an end. Some people express worry that the Kabul regime might try to buy weapons from India, North Korea and Syria with whom it has friendly relations.
in
causes
food shortages in Kabul
The abortive coup in Moscow created shortages of food and fuel in Kabul which is dependent on Soviet economic assistance.	?
It was not clear wether the decrease in shipment of food and fuel was caused by a political decision or uncertain situation in Moscow caused the delay.
There are signs, however, that Soviet Union has not been able to deliver the amount of wheat it had promised to Kabul.
Anwar Doost, the Food Minister of the Kabul regime has said that Kabul has receive only one third of die wheat the Soviet Union had promised to it
The Kabul regime is afraid that shortages of food in Soviet Union and political tension in that country might result in distribution of food and fuel supplies to Kabul.
Kozirov, the Foreign Minister of Russian Federation, has said that the level of economic assistance to Kabul and Havana should be reduced and military aid should be stopped.
Shortages of fuel has made transportation of the available food difficult in the territory controlled by the Kabul regime.
Predicting trouble in the coming winter, the Kabul regime has appealed to India, Bulgaria and Turkey for food assistance. India has promised provi-
sion of 50,000 tons of wheat which are brought to Kabul by Soviet planes through Kazakhstan Republic.
The food minister of the Kabul regime has disclosed that Kabul spent some of its food reserves last winter. He said an option for Afghanistan is to buy food from Iran.
Kabul might be able to buy food from some other Countries including Iran, and some Central Asian republics, but they will sell the food on market price in return for hard currency which Kabul does not have.
Fuel shortage in Kabul has reduced the number of flight of regime jets to bomb the Mujahideen position. According to an informed source fuel shortage reduced bombing missions of the regime planes by half.
The people of Kabul are worried about coming winter and some people have already started storing food for winter. This has caused the food prices to go high. Najibullah regime has failed to deliver the monthly ration of food to its officials. The communiques issued on Radio Kabul say that the halt is temporary!
UN workers in Eshkashim border town, Badakhshan Province, told Afghans that fuel shortage was also felt in Soviet Tajikistan after the hardliners' coup in Moscow,
Leaders oppose coup attempt
Most of the Mujahideen parties and field commanders have expressed concern over the news of a possible coup in Kabul involving Hezb Islami Hikmatyar and some communist factions.
According to reports from Kabul, Hezb is trying to stage a coup with the help of Shah Nawaz Tanai, the Khalqi leader who revolted against Najib one year ago, and some other factions of the ruling party.
Prof. Sayyaf, Prof. Mujaddidi and Prof. Rabbani have opposed such a move. A communique of the Council of Commanders tamed such a move as a conspiracy against Jehad. Prof. Rabbani has madeit dear that Jami'at is opposed to a coup involving communist factions and will opposed it.
Sometime ago, Jami'at had agreed to cooperate with Hezb in fighting against the regime. But that cooperation was oily in the battlefield. Jami’at has made it clear it will not take part in any secret plan in which the majority of theresistance groups arenot involved.
Jami'at believes that an attempt by a single party to get power through a deal with some communist factions will lead Afghanistan to a disaster.
Hezb has denied power-sharing deal with the communists but a spokesman of the party said Hikmatyar is supervising preparations for a final attack on Kabul.