AFGHANews Vol7, No 14, July 15,1991, page
Masood hopeful of major gains
[This is the text of a recent interview of Ahmad Shah Masood with a French Journalist. The interview was done through a radio. This interview has already been published in "Le Monde."]
Question: When Khwaja Ghar was re-captured by regime forces, one general said that Masood's attack on the town was a provocation to the Soviet Union. Why did you first attack Khwaja Ghar, which is located near the Soviet border?
Answer: Khwaja Ghar was an important base of the Kabul regime in the north. It was the provincial capital of Takhar, and the home base of the SAZA and SAFZA, two communist factions. Khwaja Ghar served as the headquarters of army and militia units in Dasht-i-Archi, Yangi Qala, Darqad and Rustaq, whose strength reached 2,000 men.
The proximity of Khwaja Ghar to the Soviet border added to its importance. During the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, SAFZA and SAZA factions were directly helped by the Russians to provide security for the Soviet border.
With the fall of Khwaja Ghar, an important base of the Kabul regime, the two communist factions which had militia units in many areas in the north lost their main base. This is an important development for .our work in the area.
Question: Do you support the United Nations' peace efforts?
Answer: UN efforts to bring peace to Afghanistan are appreciable, but as long as Najib is in power or has a share in power, in one form or another, UN efforts will not succeed.
Question: It seems . that the Mujahideen are still very far from political unity. What is the main reason for this?
Answer: Disunity among the Mujahideen has many causes. Thanks Allah that the Mujahideen, especially those inside Afghanistan, are now more united than any other time in the past. We hope dial as a result of the commandos' efforts, better unity is brought among the Mujahideen of different parties and areas.
Question: The commanders held several meetings last year to forge greater coordination in the military field. Do you see any progress this summer?
Answer: Last year’s meetings of commanders had a positive military and political result I hope more steps are taken in this direction during the cunentyear.
Question: There has been no big military achievement since the capture of Khost and your operations in the North. Do you think that the Mujahideen can gain the upper hand in die military operations against a regime which has proved to have better equipment and training?
Answer: So far, the Mujahideen have not started big operations.. With the opening of the mountain passes and the arrival of supplies, I hope the level of fighting will go up and the Mujahideen will score some major victories.
The fall of the Kabul regime is imminent Contrary to the outside view about the strength of the Kabul regime, it is very weak. With die fall of two or three cities, one will witness rapid developments all over the country.
Question: Some people say that one of die main reasons for disunity among Mujahideen lies with external countries involved in the conflict. Do you think that ultimately Mujahideen will achieve national independence?
Answer: Interference of outside powers is a factor in disunity among the Mujahideen, but its effect is limited to external bases of the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen inside enjoy freedom of action, and major fronts are opposed to outside dependence.
Question: No elections were held in the North between your people and Hezb-i-Islami, contrary to the agreement of last October with Hikmatyar. What happened exactly?
Answer: Unfortunately, a commander of Hezb, in contradiction to the agreement signed by his leadership, acted in such way that holding elections became impossible. Now that the problem of that particular Hezb commander has been solved, conditions will be conducive for holding elections.
Question: Would ypu be ready to have direct talks with the Soviet Union?
Answer: The Mujahideen's position is well-known. They are ready for direct talks with the Soviets.
Editorial
From page (4)
The Mujahideen must strike a balance of political and military action. Rejecting reasonable political initiatives and ignoring die importance of armed struggle are equally dangerous. While outside factors cannot be ignored, internal factors must have priority.
Unity and consensus must be our primary immediate objective. Our country needs such unity more than ever before. We should not bum the bridges of understanding between different parties for the sake of outside support.
Practical issues must be addressed first. And once all sections of the society are assured of fair treatment, disputes over the numbers of seats on representative bodies will fade away on their own.
Adopting and implementing such a policy will be difficult It will require a complex administrative structure^ and would be liable to the pitfalls of vagueness and indirection. But for the sake of national unity, the Mujahideen must try.
Jami'at could act as a bridge between the two poles of the resistance, and stands realty to play arole in weaving a consensus among different groups. This is a noble and Islamic goal.
A.I. accuse Kabiil of torturing prisoners
Amnesty International has accused the Kabul regime of summary execu tion and torture of prisoners.
The report says the regime has failed to provide fresh information about Afghans who disappeared in previous years.
An ex-prisoner told Amnesty that he was given electric shocks and beaten and that his teeth were broken to force him to sign a paper admitting that he was spying for the Mujahideen.
us publish AfgMMCezOs!
T,(ease send your donations to the foCUrwing account number:
fEJfpPD Account 9fp. 735-37 5fabib‘Bank.Ltd.
Tehkcd Bala , Peshawar Pakistan