AFGHANews Vol8, No 5, March 1,1992, page ©
Cultural cooperation to revive Islamic tradition
The	Mujahideen, Iran	and
Tajikistan have announced formation of an association to cooperate in cultural fields. A decision in this regard was taken in Teheran in the meeting of the foreign ministers of Iran and Tajikistan and leaders of the Mujahideen.
Prof. Rabbani and a leader of Wahdat	Party represented	the
Mujahideen delegation, while Iran was represented by Foreign Minister Dr. Velayati and Tajikistan by Foreign Minster Qayoumzada.
The purpose of the formation of the	cultural association is to	help
Tajikistan and other Central Asian republics in their efforts to revive their
Bonn moot postponed
The	Bonn conference	on
Afghanistan, sponsored by Willy Brandt, was postponed because the Mujahideen leaders declined to attend.
The conference was to have been convened on January 27.
Forty prominent Afghans, from among the Mujahideen, refugees living in the West and the Kabul regime were invited to attend the talks.
A spokesman for Willy Brandt who visited Peshawar to persuade Mujahideen leaders to attend the talks said: "Convening of the conference to find a political solution to the Afghan issue is a sort of paying tribute to the Afghan people’s contribution to freedom of Eastern Europe and unification of Germany."
All the Mujahideen leaders and some prominent Afghan refugees declined to attend the conference because of the participation of the regime.
culture after seven decades of Soviet domination.
Prof. Rabbani had gone to Iran to meet with the leaders of the Central Asian republics who had come to Teheran to take part in the summit of Economic Cooperation Organization, originally formed by Pakistan, Iran and Turkey. Since he failed to arrive on time, he was only able to meet with the leaders of Tajikistan.
The head officer of the association will be in Tehran. It will try to revive the Arabic script in the newly liberated republics. The Russians replaced Arabic script in the republics with Cyrillic script - an attempt to separate the younger generation of these republics from their Islamic history and culture.
Formation of the cultural association provoked criticism from some Mujahideen parties. They expressed fear that such gatherings would lead to the division of Afghanistan on linguistic and ethnic lines.
Addressing these fears. Prof. Rabbani said the association was to bring closer the people of the region who speak different languages.
He said that Jami'at believed the national unity of Afghanistan will not allow anybody to harm it. With vast membership among all ethnic groups and effective field commanders, Jami'at can play its due role in preserving the unity of the country. Prof. Rabbani said.
Two other developments have contributed to the fears about ethnic divisions: uprising of militias against Najib and warnings by Benon Sevan that if his peace plan was not accepted Afghanistan would disintegrate.
UN allows dogs to detect mines
The US government and the United Nations will cooperate in the formation of an Afghan NGO that will use dogs to detect mines in Afghanistan, under a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed by US Ambassador Nicholas Platt and UN Envoy Benon Sevan on February 20.
In June 1989, the US government initiated a program to test the feasibility of using dogs to detect mines. The US government program trained teams of dogs and dog handlers, and deployed the teams inside Afghanistan.
Since the first deployment in October 1989, the program has been responsible for the detection of 903 antipersonnel mines, 360 anti-tank mines and 1,648 pieces of unexploded shells. It has made possible the clearing of almost 650,473 square meters of roads and 569,473 square meters of mine field. Airports in Urgun and Bamyan have been cleared.
Under the MOU, Afghans working under the US government program will be organized into an independent agency similar to those supported by UNOCA.
The US government will continue to finance the program for the next 18 months.
Sadruddin Agha Khan, the former UN coordinator, was opposed to the use of dogs in mine detection operations because it might endanger their lives.
He argued that innocent dogs should not be killed in a mess created by human beings.
Editorial
Frompage(4)
•Jami'at relations with neighboring countries are based on mutual respect and good-neighborly relations. Jami'at has always opposed foreign interference. Jami'at's top commanders have suffered much from their independent policies: It is no secret that Jami'at commanders have received new weapons a year and a half after Mujahideen of other parties. Some weapon systems never arrived.
• Accusations that Jami'at is involved in regional and ethnic politicking are baseless. Jami'at will fight any move to divide Afghanistan. But only a just society can guarantee our unity and prosperity. Injustice leads to division and paves the way for outside interference.
Allah is a witness to what we say.
i-----------------------— - ■----1
Council shoots new films
Opening ceremonies for the filming of Urooj (Ascent) were held in | Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar, on February 23, Hindukush News Agency reported.
The film will depict the struggle of Afghans against the Red Army. It | is written by Seddiqullah Burmak, a young artist, who also will direct it | Urooj will be ready by the end of the holy month of Ramadhan. Burmak, an actor for Afghan Films, defected to the Mujahideen in 1989.	I
His most successful work was a documentary film about the victories |
of the Mujahideen in the north in 1991. This film Hadis-i-Fath (The story
I
of victory) was released about two months ago. The film has been shown in Peshawar, Paris, Sydney and many other countries. A western jour- I nalist even saw the film in Kabul! So far, the M1D1A office of the AIG | has sold 45 copies of this film.