[	....... r'	AEOHAMeroVol 4, So H, Juiy 15,1988, Page 6
Journalists lost their lives to report on Soviet crimes
kitted in 19S?
•Irshad oi Pakistan killed in 1988
1
A cruel war in	■
Afghanistan has continued with the world hearing very little about it. What little news came out was when some dedicated journalists accepted the danger .and risked their lives to tell the world the truth. Many of them were lucky to return safe but a few have lost their life®.
Afghanistan was not well known to the outside world. The invasion of this small and peaceful country by a Superpower made it a major news topic.
But the nature of the war and the type of its terrain did not make it possible for many journalists to spend their time and money to cover the war. This is why this big news did not get the coverage it deserved.
Few individuals went out of their Omits, and risked their lives to cover the war. The efforts of these people kept the issue alive and did not let the world forget about the crimes that the Soviet
invaders were committing against Afghans,
The price these people ! paid was very high. Some of them lost their Hfes, others went to jail but did not allow the truth to he hurled under the piles of lies spread by the invaders' propaganda machines. The threat by the Soviet Ambassador in Islambad that- foreign journalists would be killed if they traveled with the Resistance* did not frighten these brave men.
Here are the names of those who lost their lives in Afghanistan while covering the war:
®Stale Goundhus of Norway killed in 1952
•Raphael Favero of Australia killed in 1983 •Charles Thornton of USA killed in 1955
•Lee Shapiro of USA killed in
!1937 •Jim Lindetof of the USA killed in 1987 •Andy Skraypkawiafc of U.K
The following Western journalists were captured, tried on espionage charges and then released:
•Jacques Abouchar of France captured in 1984 •All&ln Gusllo of France captured in 1987 •Fausto Bilslavo of Italy captured in 1987
All the above brave men deserve appreciation for the risk they took to reveal the facts and their dedication and self-sacrifice should be an example for other journalists.
Besides professional jounalists who covered the war other foreigners who helped bring the news were people connected to relief organizations, such as doctors, aid distributors etc.
Besides doing their normal humanitarian job they also brought out news of what was happening to the Afghans, their culture and land in their'war of liberation against the Soviets.
Opinion by Mohammad Es'haq
_______   *|	_	•	frr	•«. .	_
Prospects and problems of Mujahideen elections
WHILE the Afghan Resistance is united on holding elections to form a representative government, it is divided on the feasibility of holding elections before the end of the war.
The idea of holding elections for a national assembly has existed for some years but due to practical difficulties they have net been held so far. The supporters of holding elections say that this process will involve the
majority of the people of Afghanistan, thus the Resistance will emerge stronger after an election.
According to them the people of Afghanistan have been struggling for the right of self-determination sad holding elections is a means to fulfil that aim.
The other side think that holding elections is full of problems and it may create further problems. They beiive that holding of an unsuccessful election will
discredit the Resistance and sharpen the differences among different Mujahideen groups.
Before judging who is on the right track, let us examine the practical problems facing elections.
The people of Afghanistan who must participate in the elections either live in the liberated areas of Afghanistan or in exile as refugees.
The refugees largely live in Pakistan, and Iran. A