RfGHRM NEWS VDl..iV, HO. 1,        S/1/198S,   ?B6E   4
 resistance, the enemy forces lost 15 soldiers and could not advance into the area
 Fey Mujahideen were martyred and some others vers injured in the fighting
                                               MAN6ARHAR PROVINCE
 10/ 12/19S7; Different groups of Mujahideen launched a joint operation on DP.A posts In Torkhm area near the Pakistan border using ground-to-ground rockets, As a result. 9 militias were killed and an officer was wounded
                                 MUJAHIDEEN’S BIG MEETING IN PESHAWAR
 Today, December 27.I9S7, the Russian invasion of Afghanistan was condemned in a big meeting held by the Islamic Alliance of the Mujahideen of Afghanistan in Peshawar,
 About 30,000 Refugees and Mujahideen had got together in the meeting.A substantial number of our Pakistani brothers had participated in the meeting in addition to some muslim brothers from the Middle east. There were quite a number journalists to cover the proceedings
 The meeting started at 9:am with the recitation of a few verses from the Roly Quran and then followed by speeches delivered by the leaders of the Mujahideen who condemned the Soviet occupation and demanded an early withdrawal of Russian troops from Afghanistan
 Mawlavi Mohammad Younus Ehalis, the leader of the Mujahideen's Islamic Alliance read out the Resolution of the Mujahideen Alliance in which the Afghanistan issue was attributed as the direct result of Russian invasion
 According to the Resolution, the first step towards the restoration of peace and security in Afghanistan was the unconditional withdrawal of Soviet forces from that country.
 It has been mentioned in the Resolution that the Mujahideen will only stop their armed resistance when the following conditions are fulfilled:
    1- Russians get thek troops unconditionally but of Afghanistan.
    2- The political independence, territorial integrity and all rights of the people are restored,
    3- An Islamic government is established in the country'.
    4- The people are given the right to determine their future without foreign pressure and interference.
 Mawiana AbdnrRakiin, a Pakistani scholar and Abdul Majid Zendani an Arab scholar also spoke in the 1 ; occasion. The meeting ended at i:pm after burning of a Russian flag.
 This was the second large meeting which was convened by the Alliance of the Mujahideen parties during the current year The previous meeting was held in connection to the enemy’s announcement of so-calied 'National Reconciliation' and ’ceasefire'.
                                              PUPPET SHOW FAILED
 The puppet show called "Leya jirga" failed to produce publicity for the Soviet-sponsored ''Reconciliation” policy of the puppets.
 Mujahideen racket attacks shook the conference hall and shewed the reality of ins situation to the guest journalists and friendly politicians From abroad.