AFGHANews Vol6, No 17, September 1,1990, page 9
not enough. Talking to Masood I suggested putting a nominal price on the medicine distributed. Masood did not agree but said every effort should be made to distinguish between those who are really sick and those who are not. The Health Committee was eager to start a mother and child care program.
In Taliqan the life was normal. Children went to school and business was flourishing . The city is run jointly by , Jami'at Island,	Harakat-e-Inqlab
(Mohammadi) and Hezb Island (Khalis). Talking to the Harakat leader , Eng. Umar,
I learned that there was mutual respect between the three groups. He admired Masood for his good work.
I talked to the ordinary people in Taliqan and asked their opinion about the situation. They were pleased and admired the security measures taken by the Mujahideen of the S.C. to protect die life and property of the people.
Masood-wanted the medicine donated by the relief agencies to the areas controlled by S.C. to be given through the Health Committee rather than to die individual commander or doctors. This will make it easy to control the supplies and make individual doctors answerable to an organization inside the country. I heard that the S.C. has opened a girls' school in Takhar province. I heard of no friction between local religious scholars (Ulamas) and the S.C. because of the girls' school and womens' hospital facilities.
While I was in Takhar there was no evidence of any sort 6f problem between the Mujahideen parties.
I took a truck to Nahrin to visit the hospital there. The journey took about six hours. The Nahrin hospital was in good shape and new rooms were under construction to expand the hospital. Eh. Feroz is the head of Nahrin hospital.. I met with Abdul. Hay Haqjoo, the commander of Nahrin for a- few minutes. He was very busy.	1
It took me one day by .donkey to reach Khost from Nahrin. Khost was a fertile valley. There is no proper road. The Mujahideen have repaired a narrow road connecting Eshkamish, Takhar, to Khost but it is useable only by. jeeps. The only jeep T saw belonged to Sayyed Yahya the commander of Khost Goods are brought on horses and donkeys from Eshkamish and Nahrin. On Fridays a bazaar is held in Do-Abi, the center of Khost where people come from different side valleys to buy their needs and sell their products. I visited the hospital in Khost. I also wanted to meet with Aziz Rahman, a doctor belonging to Hikmatyar's party. He was receiving medicine from the Swedish Committee for his clinic in Charkh-i-Falak side valley. I visited Hezb commander, Mawlawi Joya, in Do-Abi and enquired about the work of Azjz. I was happy that despite difficulties in some other places, a group of Hezb lived with Jami'at in peace.
From Khost I entered Panjshir dirough Khawak pass. I started to visit the health clinics from the lower part of die valley.
I went to Gulbahar at the mouth of the valley. It was a busy trading center with many shops and restaurants. I visited the mosque to offer noon prayers and saw a recitation of Holy Quran class run by the S.C.
Anaba Clinic, at die lower part of Panjshir Valley, has a proper building. Dr. Ahmad Shah treats the male patients and his wife who is also a nurse treats women.
In Rukha workers were busy repairing the central mosque which was partially damaged during die occupation of the valley by the Soviets. The 30 bed Rukha hospital has a proper building. There were many patience who had been wounded in the recent fighting in the Salang. Dr. Abdul Wasai Rabhbar is the head of Rukha hospi-
tal. Arab brothers have opened a clinic in Bazarak.
In Bazarak I met with Mahmood Khan die Chief Administrator (Emir) of Panjshir.
I found him a kind and humble person. He told me about his recent visit to Paryan where he talked to the people about die extension of the newly-built road to Andarab and upper parts of Paryan. The plan is to connect Andarab in Baghlan to Panjshir by a road through the Khawak Pass. On my way back, I saw people working on the road.
Panjshir is the most devastated district controlled by Shoora but it is in better shape than it was four years ago.
In Khench, a town in upper part of the valley, I saw a prosperous bazaar with shops full of goods. I saw many trucks and jeeps in Panjshir. Many people were busy rebuilding their houses. The land was culti vated and even new trees were planted. Road conditions had improved.
Where I went there was plenty of food but at high prices. The price of wheat was dropping in the North. I was told that the current year's harvest was better than last year.	,
The Shoora has laid the foundation of good work in the fields of health, education, agriculture and reconstruction. It is capable of absorbing large scale support in these fields.
Before going to the North I visited Logar, Wardak and Paktia provinces to visit the health clinics. In these areas the people lived a normal life as in the North but I was worried about peace in the south because I could not see organized efforts to stregthen the position of the Mujahideen. In the North, die Shoora has comprehensive political and military programs.
After five days of walking I reached the Pakistan border on August 9. The trip made me optimistic about the future of Afghanistan and hopeful for the freedom of my beloved country.
Mohammad Haider Reza, 40; is the head of the Health Department of the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan. After graduating from the Medical Faculty of the Kabul University in 1983 he migrated to Pakistan. After working for a while with one of the Mujahideen organizations he joined the Swedish Committee. He has studied at G ahzi High School and comes from Kabul.
Council opens two schools
The Education Committee of the Supervisory Council opened a primary school in Qala-i-Zal District, Kunduz Province, on July 17 and 70 students began,to attend the classes, Hindukush News Agency reported.
. The school, called Mohammadia, has three classes and is situated in Nawabad area of Qala-i-Zal.
A religious boarding school was opened by Education Committee of the SC in Qasan of Andarab on August 9 Fifty students attended the classes taught by four experienced teachers.
from page (2)
Naqibullah on August 24. Four soldiers defected the next day.
Paktia Province
The Mujahideen shot down two transport planes in Khost on August 22, Commander Jalaluddin Haqqani reported to MEDIA. The pilots and crew of the planes were killed.
Another plane was shot down when it tried to land in Khost on August 18.
Kabul Province
Six enemy soldiers were killed and one tank and one truck were destroyed on. August 19 when the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked Pir-e-Beland post with 107mm rockets.
Two Mujahideen were killed when the enemy attacked the Mujahideen position with heavy weapons.
The Mujahideen killed 14 soldiers, wounded 26 and seized 12 guns in an ambush in Arghandeh on August 27. The enemy air force bombed the area killing eight civilians and wounding 18,
Arghandeh is located between Paghman and the city of Kabul.
Ninrgarhari dies
Mohammad ■ Gulab Ningarhari, the Secretary . General of die National liberation Front (Prof. Mujaddidi's party] died in Peshawar on August 18.
Nangaihari had served in the Ministries of Tribal Affairs and Information and the Prime Minister's office in Kabul in different posts during the-time of King Zahir Shah. He became a refugee in Pakistan in 1979.
Nangaihari was from Goshta district and belonged to the Mohmand Pushtun tribe. His body was taken to Ghushta for burial.
Five Kabul regime diplomats defect
Five diplomats posted in regime embassies refused to return to Kabul when they were asked to do so, sources close to the Kabul regime told the BBC. They include regime diplomats in Yugoslavia, North Korea, Kuwait, Hungary and Czechoslovakia. The diplomats who defected are believed to be members of the Khalq faction of die ruling party.
Appoldgy!
Some of AFGHANews readers ask us to send them the Holy Quran and other Islamic books. We are sor-ry not to be able to help them. We suggest those in need of Islamic bodes to write to the addresses given below. They might be able to help them.
flchlas Vakfi
Darilssafaka Caddesi No. 57/A -P.K.35
34262-Fatih, Istanbul - Turkey
Rabitat Al- Aalam Al-Islami P.O.Box 537 A 538 Mecca Saudi Arabia