AFGHANews Vol7, No 22, November 15,1991, page
Visiting journalist says:
Peace far ofr in Afghanistan
The following is an interview with Tony Davis, an Australian journalist, who has returned from a six-week trip to northeastern Afghanistan. He has traveled to Afghanistan 15 times in the past 10 years. He writes for TIME Magazine, Asiaweek magazine and Jane's defense publications. He can communicate with the people in Persian.
Q. Which areas did you visit this time?
A. I and John visited Zebak, Eshkashim, Wakhan, Baharak, Jorm, Darayem, Tishkan and Taliqan.
Q. How was die situation in die newly-liberated areas of Badakhshan?
A. Surprisingly, the area was very peaceful. There was a degree of apprehension among the Ismaili population because die Mujahideen administration is a new thing for them and there have traditionally been religious problems between Sunnis and Ismailis. It would be a very interesting test, case for Mujahideen in the North to see whether they can achieve the same level of success achieved in Munjan over a much wider area.
It was clear to me that the policy set by the Shoora or by Sayyed Najmuddin himself was cme of conciliation. A real effort has been made not to take revenge and not to engage in any excesses. There was a general amnesty. Regime officers were allowed to return home and live in peace. The amnesty seemed to be complete and totally observed.
At die same time, the problem would be controlling die enthusiasm of the Mujahideen at lower ranks who consider Ismailis as non-Muslims, and who encourage them by force — not necessarily guns — to go five times daily to Mosque like Sunni Muslims. They have a different tradition, something that leaders of the Mujahideen in the area have to watch, because the possibility of backlash is always there.
Q. Did you see any sign of Sovietization in die area close to the border?
A. No. What struck me was, in Wakhan specially, how little had been achieved in terms of social services. There were schools; the road was useable by jeep; there was a telephone line. Beyond that, considering die Soviet Union is 100 yards away, die Afghan ride was at a totally different level of development to .the Soviet bank. I was surprised by how little had been done, which basically points out that the Kabul regime has been bankrupt financially as well as politically.
Q. How did you find Sayyed Najmuddin?
A. I met him in Baharak. He seemed to.be a man with great energy and dynamism. He was pleased with the situation as
it has developed in recent months. He was pleased that the level of casualties in Zebak fighting was surprisingly low, given die intensity of aerial bombardments. He seemed confident that Faizabad would be militarily an easy proposition. He projected optimism, perhaps a little too much.
Q. How did you find Masood this time?
A. Not surprisingly, much busier than die past He seems to divide his time between his military duties and his duties as civilian and political leader. As always, he projected an optimistic view. Given die complication of the Afghan situation and given his limited area, in terms of the national picture, I wondered how much of his optimism was justified. I do not find it difficult to accept that the regime is weak, but whether die political situation will evolve in a way that is to his (Masood's) own liking is another story.
Q. What major point was Masood trying to make in his conversations?
A, He wanted to project two major point to foreign journalists:
• He sees the regime, despite its survival, as very fragile politically and militarily.
•He was clearly unhappy about the level of assistance reaching him from outside.
Q. Was Masood worried about negative symmetry?
A. No. His attitude was that it was a good thing and that the superior political position of the Mujahideen, in terms of popular support across the country, would be a much more powerful factor than any temporary advantage the government might enjoy militarily.
Q. Did you find any weight in the allegation. that Masood was forming his own kingdom in the North?
A. I do not know what is in Masood's mind. I saw, in the north, a significant improvement in the level of civil organization in die areas controlled by the Shoora in terms of health, schooling road construction and civil works. So there is no question that, objectively speaking, a new administrative structure is emerging in northeastern Afghanistan which has the potential to spread to other parts of the north, and indeed that potential is being fostered as far as possible in northern Afghanistan.
So, if Masood were inclined to develop a kingdom of the north, as you put it, the infrastructure, compared to other areas of Afghanistan I have seen, is at a higher level.
However, the subjective situation was that, as far as Masood told me, he is interested in Islamic revolution in Afghanistan as a whole not just in a Tajik and Uzbak area. He is making an effort, which may not be as successful as might have been, to make die Shoora a multi-ethnic body. So I would be surprised if Masood — subjectively — has plans to set up an independent
kingdom in die northeast
The answer to your question, briefly, is: 1 have no reason to believe that he now wishes to setup an independent kingdom of the north but potential for such a body is, objectively speaking, in place.
Q. Is Masood's army working now?
A. hi a sense, in 1991 die Urdu-i-Island (Islamic Army) has come of age. It was formed in 1988.1989, militarily speaking, was not a successful year for the Shoora. 1990 was also a lean year. The Shahr-i-Buzurg operation was a failure, a personal failure for Masood. However, in 1991 you see a remarkable capacity on die part of the Islamic Army to coordinate operations over very wide areas of die north. The events of July and August, where separate campaigns were being fought in Takhar. Badakhshan and Salang, is the first time anyone commander inside Afghanistan has been able to coordinate military operations on that scale over that sort of an area. This is clearly something significant.
At a tactical level, the forces of the Urdu-i-Islami were able to inflict a lot of damage on die regime, against pretty substantial force thrown at them, including armored and air strikes. Don't take what I am saying too far. It is still an embryo force. But it established itself this year. It is a militarily effective organization which the regime in Kabul is going to have to watch out for.
Q. How did you find life in Taliqan?
A. Life in Taliqan, as for as the government is concerned, was peaceful. In Taliqan, we were staying at die Reconstruction Committee on the main road. The number of trucks passing by at five and six in die morning made sleeping impossible There was a high level of economic activity, a lot more than two years ago. Trucks we;'-'- going to Badakhshan and Kabul. Very striking was die availability of goods in the shops in Taliqan. All sorts of electrical goods — a range of cassette players, Sony pocket radios and a wide array of food stuffs — were available. Despite die bombardments of July, commercial life in Taliqan seemed to be thriving.
Q. Did you see any sign of war weariness among the ordinary people? The Mujahideen?
A. The war weariness is seen in the northeast, to some extent, among the civilian population. It is a function of economics. The economic situation in the area as a whole was hot disastrous, (but) they are in straitened circumstances. One indication of what I am saying is the number of beggars in Taliqan. It indicates that there are serious economic problems in the area which the Shoora does not have the financial means to cope with. So war weariness exists, certainly, but it is more function of economics than of military activity. The people in Taliqan were NOT saying, "Why doesn't this war stop? We were bombed in July! it is intolerable!" There was nothing like that. But