AFGHANews Vol7, No 7, April 1,1991, page ©
WUFA Seminar discusses
A three-day seminar on "Rebuilding Afghan Political and Legal Institutions" ended on March 11 in Peshawar.The seminar was organized by the Writers Union of Free: Afghanistan (WUFA) in cooperation with USAID, the Asia Foundation and the Commissionerate for Afghan Refugees.
The seminar was inaugurated by Amir Gulistan Ginjua, the governor of NWFP. Praising the courage of Afghans in their fight for freedom, he said Afghans should be allowed to determine their future government and rebuild their legal, economic, social and political institutions according to their own perceptions.
Many Afghan, Pakistani, western and other Asian scholars took part in the deliberations of the seminar, which were attended by a selected number of Afghans. No French scholars were present.
Benazir Bhutto, the former prime minster of Pakistan and the leader of the opposition in the National Assembly of Pakistan, addressing the final panel of the seminar, said that despite Pakistanis' encouragement the AIG had not improved its performance, and the Mujahideen were riddled with differences. She said disappointment about the AIG's performance, differences between major Mujahideen groups and fear of Islamic fundamentalism in the West caused a sharp decline in international support and sympathy for the Mujahideen.
She described the chances of the Mujahideen's military victory over the Kabul regime as slim, but was of the view that military operations might help a political solution.
Quoting American sources, she said that US aid for the Afghan Mujahideen will not be available beyond 1991.
She said relations between Iran and Kabul regime were improving steadily and gave the following examples in support of her statement:
•	Landing of Najib's plane in Mesh'had
•	Iran’s food aid for the victims of recent floods in Afghanistan
•landing facilities for ARIANA, regime civil airline, in Iran
•	Close contacts between Iranian diplomats in Kabul and some minsters of regime
She said Iran is no longer opposed
to a settlement in which the PDPA (including Najibullah) was a part of. She further said that while Iran played a marginal role during the war, it wants to secure a position of influence in post-war Afghanistan.
About the role of the Soviet Union, Mrs. Bhutto said the Kabul regime survived as a result of the massive Soviet economic and military assistance, which reached $350 million per month.
She said the Soviet position in Afghanistan had hardened in recent months due to the increased influence of the military in Moscow. She suggested that Pakistan should refrain from interference in Afghan affairs because it would have a terrible impact on present bonds of friendship between the two people.
She recommended that Pakistan should take the following steps in regards to the Afghan issue:
•	honor the Geneva accords in letter and spirit;
•	pursue a peaceful political settlement of the Afghan issue;
•	Establish cordial relations with any regime which comes to
power in Afghanistan through fair and free elections; and
■extend support for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
The head of the Kabul regime quickly reacted to the statement by Benazir and praised her for what he called "her political realism". Najib, however, chided Bhutto for her role in the Jalalabad attack, which was launched when she was in power.
The seminar had some other interesting aspects too:
Although it was organized by a pro-Zahir Shah organization, and a member of royal family took part in it, the role of Zahir Shah in the future of Afghanistan was not a major topic of discussion.
The seminar witnessed to a verbal clash between a speaker and some members of Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar party). A speaker's criticism of the Mujahideen political leaders brought a sharp reaction from the Hezb members. Police intervened to calm the situation.
The seminar succeeded in one of its aims: bringing back the Afghan issue to the attention of the media.
aid to Kabul
The Turkish Red Cross has donated relief goods worth $40,000 to the victims of the earthquake and floods in Afghanistan.
The goods were flown to Kabul and handed over to the Red Crescent Society of the Kabul regime.
Turkey's donations are a response to the UN call for assistance to the victims of earthquake and flood. But goods will not reach the real victims, the majority of whom live in the Mujahideen-controlled	areas.
Furthermore, any move like this will be used by the Kabul regime for political purposes.
It would have been more appropriate to deliver the goods to Mujahideen or UN agencies for distribution to make sure that they reach the needy people.
The donation to Kabul was given few days before Turkey and USSR singed the friendship treaty. It seems that Turkey's 'humanitarian aid' to Kabul was friendly gesture towards Moscow.
India has sent relief goods worth $100,000 to Kabul for the victims of the recent earthquake and floods. The goods, which included medicine and blanket, woe flown to Kabul and were handed over to the regime authorities.
France has given a donation of one million francs to the victims of the earthquake.
9~(dp us puiCisk WgMS&fews!
Please send your donations to tfe foUbzoing account number:
jPSHM)
Account 735-37 (MaBiB 'Banf^Ltd.
“TifikaC Bala, (Peshawar Pakistan