Vol 8, No 10 & 11	June	1,1992
Kozyrev pays visit to Kabul
Andrei Kozyrev, the foreign minister of Russian Federation , arrived in Kabul on April 13 to discuss issues of mutual concern with the leaders of the Islamic State of Afghanistan.
During his one-day visit, Kozyrev met the president. Prof. Sibghatullah Mujaddidi, Prof. Rabbani, the head of the Leadership Council, Ahmad Shah Masood, the defence minister, and officials of the Afghan foreign ministry.
In these meetings, the Russian raised the issue of Soviet prisoners of war who were captured by.^the Mujahideen during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. As a gesture of good will, Ahmad Shah Masood announced the release of one Soviet POW who was captured by the Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council. The prisoner was to accompany Kozyrev back to Russia but due to technical problems he did not arrive on time. Some days later, he was handed over to the Russian embassy in Kabul.
The Afghan officials insisted that Russia assume its due share of the burden of reconstruction in postwar Afghanistan, since the Red Army was responsible for much of the devastation; and that the Russians provide maps of the minefields they sowed throughout the Afghan countryside.
The Afghan leaders also demanded the return of Afghan children sent to Russia and other countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States by the former communist regime. They insisted that Russia should provide information about missing Afghans thought to be jailed in the former Soviet Union.
Kozyrev promised his country's assistance and cooperation in regard to all die Afghan demands.
In a joint declaration both sides condemned the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. But Kozyrev disavowed Russian responsibility for the invasion of Afghanistan, characterizing the CIS as victims of the same corrupt system which oppressed Afghanistan.
Masood tells story of
's victory
The following is the text of the first press conference addressed by Ahmad Shah Masood, the Defence Minister of the interim Islamic government of Afghanistan, held in the Foreign Ministry building in Kabul on May 8,1992.
A great many foreign and Afghan journalists attended the conference.	First, Masood
briefed them about developments before and immediately after transfer of power. Then he answered journalists' questions.
First, I welcome all of you to free and Islamic Afghanistan, and I appreciate the role of journalists in informing the world about developments in our country.
As you know, die people of Afghanistan started Jehad soon after the communists took power in Kabul in 1978. Motivated by Islamic ideals, they fought the Soviet Union and its puppet nilers for 14 years and succeeded ip defeating the enemy super power. They not only freed Afghanistan, but they also helped many other countries to get rid of communist dictatorships.
StyQrtfth(e.ws wishes a happy
‘EiduCSldfia to its Muslim readers
When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, many people could not imagine that one day the Mujahideen would achieve victory and that Soviet Union would be defeated. Referring to historical examples, they argued that a country occupied by the Soviet Union could not be liberated. But we believed from the start of Jehad that, one day, we would be able to free our country.
During the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan we remained confident of our ultimate victory. With the passage of time, we grew more certain that the final victory of the Afghan Mujahideen was imminent
When Soviet troops were withdrawn from Afghanistan, some people thought that the Mujahideen would be able to overthrow the communist regime in Kabul within weeks. This was the view of those who knew little about the nature of Afghan people and whose information about the situation in Afghanistan was imprecise. We told the world at that time that the Mujahideen needed several years after tiie withdrawal of Soviet troops to topple the Kabul regime.
. When the victory was delayed and .attack (Mi Jalalabad faced problems, many people became disappointed and thought that Mujahideen were not able to defeat the Kabul regime. This too was the view of those who knew little about the Afghan people and the real situation in the country. While others woe disappointed, we had declared that the Kabul regime could be defeated militarily and that we needed time to do that We followed our strategy and prepared for the military defeat of the regime.
Two years and some months after the Soviet troop withdrawal, the Supervisory Council was in position to launch strategic military offensives. In order to further insure the success of these operations, we wanted to coordinate our attacks with other Mujahideen
To back page