 AFGHAN NEWS             No. 1             1-2-1985         P-4
 of staying with 1,100 Afghan soldiers at night. Pie said, that the Russians live separately and do not allow any Afghan soldiers to roam around their division.
     The Russians stay in. the southern part of Herat Airport in a flat and deserted plain called Dashti Mir Daood.
     Ismael Khan did not know the number of the Russian troops staing in Herat but he said that the Russians are staying in three bases located in three different and stratigically very important areas. „
     While talking about the food situations and the people's economic* conditions he pointed out that the Russians have to a large extent deatroyed the economic structure of the people.
     The enemy think that poverty will bring people into the government's hand,it is why the Russians have completely burned the crops and looted people's properties.
     Replying to a question regarding arms and ammunition he said that Mujahid weapons are mostly captured and they are in need of more advanced^ sophisticated and effective weapons.
     He said that Iran is not providing arms and ammunition to his
 Mujahideen, In replying to another question whether Mujahideen want
                                                      \
 to receive, arms, from Iran or not he answered "yes why not". He added that we want arias not just from Iran but from .all Islamic countries.
    ‘When asked whether Mujahideen have received any financial aid from Iran? he answered,•"not so far".
                               is killed
     Shiragha Chungor a strong government militia Comfnander was assassinated by. Mujahideen of Herat On Jan, 22nd. Shiragha Chungor was actively fighting against enemy forces in the begining of Jehad. He was in control of Eastern part of the city of Herat and for about a , year or more he. organized Mujahid groups in that area. He was a comma--ndor-tof: Jlarakat Inqulabi Islami of Mawlavi Mohammadi unti he joined the Soviet-Karmal troops.
     For more than three years Shiragha Chungur .was a dark part of Communist militia groups. He was supported by Soviet tanks and helped by government soldiers while attacking Mujahideen bases and destroying civilian houses. Shiragha's death is a great loss for the Russians and a great gain for Mujahideen", Ismael Khan said with Shiragha's death, the Russians and their puppets will no longer have a base for infiltration or a source for attacking Mujahideen.