  AFGRAN NE-WS___VOi, II___MQ.,,16. .. 15/8/1986_PAGE 7
 Training of local groups and central forces have made good progress. In each area the commanders and administration, are ehoosen by the local Mujahideen,
 The level of fighting has gone up and factional differences have beem reduced. The Mujahideen and people are feeling more confident about their victory over the enemy. The moral of the Mujahideen and people is high.
 These developments made the Soviets angry and forced them to take military action against the area.
                                                                                                             «
 From the first day of Ramazan Eid. 9th June, the enemy air force started to bomb the base areas especially the Khailab valley for ten successive days Bombing started at dawn <at.vf>0 in the morning ) and continued till dusk! 8:oo in the evening!. The enemy planes carried from SO to 100 missions every day. Such intensive bombardments were unprecendented in the area.
 On thel2th June 1986,The7th, 18th and 20th. divisions of the puppets and 20th division of the Soviets reached Kunduz. In addition to the above forces, the units from the logistic authority of the puppet army and the police operative units of Baghlan province patncipated in the operations.
 The enemy wanted to attack the khailab valley and make it possible for supply convoys to go to Takhar and Badakhshan.
 On 12/6/1986.the enemy attacked khanabad On 15/6/1986. The enemy forces reached Eshkamish . On 17/6/3 986, at 6 am hundreds of Helicopters landed more than 3000 Soviet commandos in the Khailab valley (where the Mujahideen strongholds are located!
 Our Mujahid brothers started to fight the enemy , One Helicopter was hit by an RP6-7, another was hit by a Dschk and the third by an RPG-7. With the loss of the Helicopters the enemy could not land more troops. The troops which were advancing from Eshkamish towards the valley were stopped.
 In the first dash, the general operational Commander of the Soviet forces was killed. Maps and other documents were captured from his body. After heavy bombardments the enemy wanted to land troops m the afternoon of the same day but failed, A fourth Helicopter was shot down by Ak-e7 fire. Thank Allah, with a limited number of Mujahideen the enemy was defeated in the first day.
 In four days of fighting, during which Mujahideen clashed nine times with the enemy commandos, more than 200 enemy commandos were killed The enemy also attacked the strongholds of Itehad 1 Prof.Sayvaf i, the stronghold of Qazi Islamuddm and other Mujahideen groups. Thanks Allah every where they faced resistance from Mujahideen .The Soviets had a minor victory in capturing a base of Ittehad. The reason for that was due loiack of experience in such a massive offensive.