AFGHANews Vol7, No 23, December 1,1991, page ©


y*VU P d u?o viXww > fit fe	v-m^m ■:
Editorial
Moscow agreement a victory
The agreement which the Mujahideen and Soviet officials signed in VIoscow can provide a basis for a political solution to the Afghan problem.
First, the document condemns the 1979 invasion. The Soviets had long admitted that the invasion was a mistake; this is the first time that the condemnation has become part of an official agreement with the Mujahideen. This is indeed a moral victory for the Afghan Jehad.
The Soviets agreed to the formation of an Islamic interim government, to which all the state powers would be transferred. This is an important step towards freedom for Afghanistan, as it endorses the Mujahideen position that the Kabul Tegime should transfer all its powers to such a government
The agreement specifies that all the treaties signed between Soviet Union and the communist governments in Kabul since 1978 will be subject to review by the Islamic interim government. The crucial importance of this achievement has gone largely unremarked. The Mujahideen do not want Afghans to be bound by the hundreds of agreements the Kabul regime has signed with Moscow; in the future such treaties might be used for political and economic leverage against Afghanistan.
Moreover, this point amounts to an admission by the Soviets that all the governments they have kept in power in Kabul since 1978 have been illegitimate.
The Soviets have also agreed to stop sending fuel for military use and to withdraw their military advisors from Kabul. Lack of fuel would neutralize the regime air force. Soviet advisors will not be available to assist in firing SCUD missiles.
Although the Soviets refused the Mujahideen's demand for war reparations, they agreed to take part in the reconstruction of Afghanistan. Their participation is a must. But the Mujahideen reserve their right to demand war reparations at any appropriate juncture. By condemning the invasion, the Soviets have implicit-y accepted responsibility for the destruction it caused in Afghanistan. It is commonplace that under international law, the side that starts the war should pay for the damage.
The two sides have agreed to release each others' prisoners, a humanitarian issue of great importance to both sides. The Mujahideen had released several Soviet prisoners, the Soviets failed to reciprocate. The Mujahideen will cooperate in releasing Soviet prisoners, but progress will depend on Soviet cooperation in getting Mujahideen prisoners released from Kabul's prisons.
The Soviets and Mujahideen will form a joint commission soon to supervise the implementation of the agreement Those Mujahideen parties which did not take part in the Moscow talks hopefully will join the peace process after they witness the positive results of the Moscow mission. If all the Mujahideen parties support the current process, the Kabul regime will have no choice but to abandon its place in favor of an interim Islamic government in Afghanistan.
The time has come for the Mujahideen parties to play their historic role. With unity they can pull the rug from under the feet of the Kabul regime and pave the way for the establishment of an Islamic system in Afghanistan.
Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and Iran, who have supported the Mujahideen, seem happy about the Moscow agreement This could help persuade the remaining Mujahideen parties to take part in the current process.
The agreement in Moscow does not restrict Mujahideen military activities, but nevertheless has strengthened their political position. On the other hand, it has demoralized the Kabul regime, and signs of this have already appeared.
The Mujahideen parties involved in the talks should pursue them diligently and try to convince the remaining Mujahideen parties to join. Lack of attention to the political aspects of the conflict has been a Mujahideen weakness, and has been fully exploited by the Soviets and the Kabul regime in the past
Obituary
Ghazi Khan killed
Ghazi Khan Choopan, an important commander of Jami'at in Nooristan, was killed by unknown gunmen on the Dir-Chirtral road on November 12. One of his sons was injured in the incident
He was crossing the Lowari Pass on his way to Drosh, near Chitral, where his family lives, when unidentified gunmen
opened Fire on his car.
His family suspect the "timber Mafia" is behind	the
crime. Ghazi Khan	had
banned the timber merchants' uncontrolled tree-cutting in the areas he controlled. He was fully aware the dangers deforestation poses to natural beauty and to the lives of people and animals.
Ghazi Khan was bom 58 years ago in Ghazi Abad of Kamdesh District, Kunar Province. His father, Malik Jamdullah Khan, was a notable figure in the area.
Considering him a potential danger, the communists imprisoned him in 1978. After seven month he was released.
Ghazi Khan took part in the uprising of the people of Kamdesh during the fall of 1978. He joined Jami'at Islami and remained loyal to it until he died.
He was appointed the commander of Darra Send. He captured many enemy posts in trial valley and cut the road between the center of Kunar and Barikot garrison.
He took part in the fall of As mar garrison in 1979 and the liberation of Barikot in 1988. His men also took part in the fighting for control of Asadabad. He led about 1,000 armed men.
Ghazi Khan was a respected figure among the Mujahideea Attaullah, his son, has succeeded him as the leader of his Mujahideen. He has left behind a widow, five sons and eight daughters.
Prof. Rabbani termed Ghazi Khan's death a great loss to the Mujahideen. "He not only protected the honor of Afghanistan against outside intervention but also fought against the exploiters of the national wealth who wanted to ruin the beautiful nature of Nooristan," he said.