AFGHANews Vol 5, No 12, June 15,1989, page ©
Who's who in the Mujahideen
Mawlawi Mohammad Zarif
Mawlawi Mohammad Zarif was bom 49 years ago in the village of Kuran in the district of Sangcharak, Xawzjan province.
His father. Mullah Abdul Jamil was a religious man teaching Quran to the people of that village. Mohammad Zarif was six years old when he was sent by his father to the mosque to leant the Quran.
He learnt the Quran quickly and started the basics of Islamic theology. It took him thirteen years to complete his studies in different madrasas (religious schools). He studied jurisprudence in Balkh, Faryab and Kunduz provinces.
Mawlawi Zarif, a Tajik, became a teacher and taught in different madrasas in Sangcharak district. He taught jurisprudence and Tafseer( Holy Quran commentry) to his students for fourteen years.
When the communists took over in 1987, Mawlawi Zarif was a Mudarres (a teacher of religious subjects) in Sangcharak. Mawlawi Zarif left his job and started to move from district to district to warn the people about the danger of communism. He knew most of the communist students when he was a teacher.
He was active in demonstrations and protests against the communists during the rule the former King and his cousin. President Daud. In the summer of 1978 he formed his own group and attracted the young anti-communists Muslim activists. The first group which took arms were 22 persons out of whom just four are alive now, the rest were martyred. "People such as Qazi Mohammad Sharif, Saifuddin, Mawlawi Sher Ali, Mawlawi Mohammad Sarwar, Mawlawi Esmatullah, Mullah Khairuddin and Abdul Jabar were the first heroes," said his representative in Peshawar.
"They worked for about one year underground without using arms against the puppet regime. On second April 1979, Mawlawi Zarif ordered his group to launch an attack against the district headquarters in Sangcharak. In a six-hour operation in which 60 Mujahideen participated, Mawlawi Zarif was able to capture the district headquarters. That was the first victory which opened the gate to the future victories,” said his son now living in Peshawar.
Mawlawi Zarif established his base in Gusfandi valley in the mountains of Sangcharak. The year 1981 was
a bad time for his Mujahideen. One of his group commanders, Khair Mohammad, joined the regime forces informing the enemy about the Mujahideen activities and their whereabouts. The Russians attacked the Mujahideen and inflicted heavy losses on them.
In 1982, Mawlawi Zarif was appointed by Prof. Rabbani the administrative head( Amir) of Jawzjan province.
One of the biggest operations in which he lost his main commander, Ahmad Khan was in the summer of 1985. The operation was launched in cooperation with Mujahideen of Balkh province attacking Zari district
Mawlawi Zarif has established a council of Ulema to act as the judicial committee.
He is keen to keep the doors of the madrasas open. He still teaches if he finds the time to do so.
His relations with others parties in the area are good. "Since Jami'at is dominant in the area, he has no problem with other parties." Last year when commander Khalil Khan of Balkh was sent by commander Masood to assess the strength of Mujahideen in the area of Jawzjan, Mawlawi Zarif welcomed commander Masood's initiatives and assured him of his support.
He is interested in studying new books on Islam. "Whenever he gets a chance he goes to a quiet comer and reads his books," said his representative.
He is respected as a teacher and as an honest Muslim. He is married and has six children.
Afghan war costs Soviets $70 billion
A Soviet Government official has said that his country spent 70 billion Dollars during the nine years of war in Afghanistan.
The Soviet have lost thousands of tanks, hundreds of jets and helicopters in addition to heavy casualties among its soldiers which could not be measured by money. In addition to that it gave large quantities of military and non-military supplies to the communist regime in Kabul.
For a country which is facing shortages of food and other consumer goods the burden of war was unbearable. This was an important reason for the Soviets to leave Afghanistan.
But the Soviets have committed themselves to support the Kabul regime by giving economic and military aid to it. This means that while they have minimized the political costs still they are spending a lot of money in Afghanistan.
For a short period of time the costs could be bearable but the Soviets may find themselves unable to bear the costs for long. '
A BBC correspondent who visited Hairatan port along the Soviet border reported that huge quantities of military and non-military goods had arrived at the town to be transported to Kabul.
According to the reporter, Kabul and Moscow seemed concerned by the level of expenditure to keep the regime in Kabul.
The reporter saw long columns of tanks, armored cars, trucks and artillery in the border town.