AFGHANews Vol 7, No 6, March 15,1991, page Q
the city of Mazar and exercises partial control over some districts. It has two air bases and one military division in Mazar. The paramilitary units of KHAD and police are also operating in the province. They are assisted by an addition force of 5000 local militiamen.
The Kabul regime accords high importance to Mazar. The city is close to the Soviet border and has become a transit point for military and non-military supplies brought from the Soviet Union. When the Soviet Union was about to complete the withdrawal Of their troops, the Kabul regime was preparing the city for a possible transfer of the capital from Kabul to Mazar.
A university was opened and defenses of the city were beefed up by establishing more security posts around the city and enlarging the airports in Mazar: Mazar is now protected by thee rows of security posts. Since the surrounding areas have no cover, the posts prevent the Mujahideen from slipping into the city.
The border town of Hairatan, 60 kilometers north of Mazar, is a busy town. The Soviets have a consulate in Hairatan where many Soviets work.
The Kabul regime has SCUD missile launch sites in Mazar and Hairatan and there are many Soviet military advisors in the city to help the regime army.
The Sayyed of Kayan's group tried to get a foothold in Mazar-i-Sharif by offering large sums of money. It was able to create some tribal battalions in Samangan. Its offer attracted many regime personnel from the army, KHAD and police from Balkh Province. This made the army and KHAD angry and as a result of an armed clash, the Sayyed of Kayan's militias were forced out of Samangan and Balkh.
Jawzjani and Gelam Jam militia groups have been used in Mazar but they oppose the Mujahideen.
Groh-i-Kar, a communist faction in coalition with Najib has some influence in the city of Mazar. The Khalqis have suffered setbacks in Mazar due to purges in the wake of Tanai's coup.
The Kabul regime has adopted a defensive posture. While it avoids military confrontation, it is very active in subversive activities aimed at buying qff commanders and spreading discord between different ethnic groups and religious sects.
Despite all the difficulties, people in Mazar support the Mujahideen in general and Jami'at in particular. They are committed to Jehad and believe in the liberation of Afghanistan from control of the communists.
Hidayatullah, an ex-Soviet soldier; who had converted to Islam and fought the communists alongside the Mujahideen, died in a mine explosion on February 28 in Baghran District, Helmand Province, Commander Abdul Wahid reported. Four Mujahideen were also wounded in the incident and the truck carrying them was destroyed.
The martyred ex-Soviet soldier was captured by the Mujahideen some years ago in Delaram District, Farah Province. He converted to Islam, was renamed Hidayatullah and married a local girl.
He was actively involved in Jehad against the Soviets and the Kabul regime and was in charge of logistics for Commander Abdul Wahid , the most powerful Jami'at commander in Helmand.
Hidayatullah was bom in the Ukraine and was mechanic of Soviet weapons. He spoke Pushtu fluently and had learned the basics of Islam. He I
read Holy Quran regularly. He blended with local people so well that an outsider might take him for a local resident. He accompanied Commander Abdul Wahid to Quetta once, where nobody recognized him as a Russian.
When he met a Western journalist, he sent a letter to his family inviting them to visit him in the liberated areas of Afghanistan. He has a mother and a sister. He loved his mother and wanted to encourage her to accept Islam, his new religion, which he adored.
Hidayatullah remembered his dog the rabbits and sheep that he had left behind in the Soviet Union, and sometimes told stories about them to his fellow Mujahideen. In Afghanistan, he had bought two-milk cows.
Mujahideen say that his Afghan wife is pregnant and very soon Martyr Hidayatullah will have a son or daughter.
Friendship Treaty' is coyer for aggression
From page (4)
The people of Afghanistan have suffered as a result of the Soviet Union's proximity, and regret their past relations with that country, because they led Afghanistan to its present crisis.
There are no people-to-people good feelings between Afghans and Soviets. The horror stories of the suppression of Central Asian Muslims and destruction of their rich Islamic culture created enough bad feeling among ordinary Afghans towards the Soviet system. Some decades later, Afghans themselves experienced brute force at the hands of the Red Army in a decade-long war of liberation. The past does not leave any room for good feelings by Afghans towards the Soviets.
It is true that Afghan relations with the Soviets were established long before the communist takeover, but the Soviet side misused the relationship to export communist revolution to an Islamic country, first through economic and military aid and later by force. The Soviet Union justified its 1979 invasion of Afghanistan using the articles of this ■Friendship Treaty'.
Afghan Mujahideen do not recognize any of the treaties singed or renewed by the communists because their government is illegal, and Afghanistan was under occupation of the Red Army when the agreements woe signed.
The future relations of Afghanistan with its neighbors, including the Soviet
Union, will be based on equality. The Soviets will not be in a position to dictate their terms to an Islamic government in a free Afghanistan.
The Soviet Union wants to maintain the status quo so that all the concessions it has extracted from the communists in Kabul remain intact This explains the degree of Soviet support for the Kabul regime, despite problems at home.
Rabbani meets with UK, US diplomats
Prof. Rabbani and some other Mujahideen leaders met with Mark Lennex-Boyd, British parliamentary under-secretary for foreign affairs, on February 25 at the British High Commission in Islamabad. Different aspects of the Afghan problem came under discussion.
The Jami'at leader also met with Ambassador Peter Tomsen, US special envoy to the Afghan resistance, on February 9 in Islamabad. The current political and military situation came under discussion.Tomsen was on one of his routine visits to Pakistan to evaluate the situation.
Due to the security situation aris ing from the Gulf war, the meetings took place in Islamabad rather than Peshawar.