WOHRH HEUS WOL.III, WM, 15/2/ 198? PAGE 2
 countries and areas which his armies had occupied.
 The peace offer was handed over to the British Government through different diplomatic channels. Among others the king of neutral Sweden urged Britain to accept a peace settlement. Winston Churchill, the British Prime Minister, answered in a letter:
 "... Before any such requests or proposals could even be considered, it would be necessary that effective guarantees by deeds, not words, should be forthcoming from Germany which would ensure the restoration of the free and independent life of Czechoslovakia, Poland, Norway, Denmark, Holland, Belgium, and above all, France,. “.
 Churchill may not have been keen on national independence for the people in the Third World, who were under British rule, but in Europe 1940 when his own skin was in danger he easily understood what certain people don't understand today; namely, that # there can be no peace with the aggressor until aggression has stopped, troops are withdrawn and status quo ante bellum restored
 The same is valid for Afghanistan today - no peace until aggression has ceased, Soviet troops are out and the national independance of Afghanistan re-established,
 What Hitler actually said was. that he wanted to keep all what he had taken, but he
 didn't want to continue to fight for it.
 The Soviets are worse Through military means they have been able to occupy only 10 percent of Afghanistan, and now they say: "We want the rest too, but we don't want to fight for it Let's make a political deal"
 It is a pity that some editors in the west can't see through this Soviet shrewdness. It a pity for the Afghans who have lost a few friends from the past. It is however an even greater pity for those people in the west, who are under the threatening shadow of the Soviet Union
                                        NEWS FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS

                                           KABUL PROVINCE
 28/1/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'atin Jegdalek area of Soroobi district, shot down a SU-25 enemy Jet At 4:15 pm six enemy jets were bombing the village in the area, one enemy jet was hit and crushed in the village of "Sapar"
                                          K A PIS A PROVINCE
 17/1/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked Bagram airbase with heavy weapons. It is believed that the enemy suffered heavy losses. A ammunition dump was hit and 3
 helicopters were damaged.