ATGHASe^s Vol 1 Ho 10, September 15,1988, Page 2
f— -----;---:—~->
News
*4t4
from the battlefields
Takhar province
THE Mujahideen from Jami'at pushed back an enemy offensive on Taliqan city killing 25 soldiers, wounding 50 others, takiog prisoner 16, capturing 21 light weapons and % Dschfc machine gun on the 3rd of September.
The enemy was forced to retreat and the Mujahideen are still controlling Taliqan.
Parwan province
In a series of Mujahideen operations on the southern Salang, all the regime posts in the area has been either captured or managed to escape The operations which lasted for 20 days also resulted in the capture of 100 rifles and more than 100 DRA soldiers.
Only the Russian forces are stationed on the Southern part of Salang.
Meanwhile, in another operation on the militia forces in Jabaisaraj area, the Mujahideen from Jami'at led by Brig, jailani took prisoner 30 militiamen and seised 25 light weapons. The rest of the militias escaped and the Mujahideen took control of the Eastern flank of Qaiai Surkfa (Red Fort) where Soviet forces are based.
Kabul province
The Mujahideen from jami at under the command of Mullah Ezaiullah ambushed a
DRA military column on the Kabul-Paghman main road destroying 5 tanks, capturing 30 light weapons, 3 machine guns and a mortar in the past 10 days. They also took prisoner 29 DRA soldiers in the operation.
The Mujahideen in a rocket attack hit Kabul Airport and destroyed 5 enemy aircraft on the ground. Besides this, they carried out rockets attacks on Qargha Military Division and on Police Academy.
•The Mujahideen from jami'at under the command of Mohammad Ksnif attacked enemy forces in Saroobi, destroying three posts, killing IQ DRA soldiers and. capturing 4 machine guns, 5 field binoculars and a hoc of hand grenades on August 5th. The posts were situated in Tangi Abrishumt at the mouth of Saroobl district.
One Muiahid and some animals were killed when the enemy artillery bombarded the area in retaliation.
Baghlan province
A group of DRA soldiers and militiamen numbering 100 joined Mujahideen in Pull-Khumri district bringing with them 40 Kalashinkov rifles, 12 light weapons and heavy machine guns and an anti-tank rocket launcher. The group was* latter transferee! to a safer place on the outskirts of the district.
Meanwhile, on August
6th. 200 militiamen surrendered to the Jami'at Mujahideen in Hasantal area along with their weapons, Hasantal is located about 15 kilometers North-East of Baghlan where Jami at has a stronghold commanded by Arbab Juma.
Zabul province
The Mujahideen from Jami at ambushed a DRA military column destroying four vehicles, killing 20 soldiers and taking prisoner 15 others. They also captured 25 Kaiashinkov rifles on the first of August.
The Mujahideen lost two men and six others were injured.
Qandahar province
The Mujahideen clashed with DRA forces in Shah Walikoot District capturing 8 soldiers including an officer, destroying more than 10 tanks and trucks and killing over SO soldiers.
Some Mujahideen were wounded in the operation.
Herat province
The Mujahideen raided a DRA base in Guzara area capturing 54 Kaiashinkov rifles, one machinegun and taking prisoner 3 members of KHAD.
The area was liberated from the presence of the enemy and is now under Mujahideen control.
The next day. the Mujahideen attacked DRA militiamen hideouts in Kalata border area, killing 20 militiamen, taking prisoner four soldiers including two officers and seizing 1Q Kaiashinkov rifles.
Later DRA forces bombed a number of villages but no casualty figure is yet known.
Soviet forces are still stationed in Hem. □