----------------------------------------------- AFGHANews	Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page ©
Mujahideen chase Comrade Najib into the United Nations sanctury
The Mujahideen’s recent victories, program had improved his image out- the regime, KHAD, which was trained, initiated by the Supervisory Council of side Afghanistan. He was claiming to financed and directed by KGB. As the Jami'at, deprived Najib of a graceful be the factor of stability in the region head of KHAD, Najib committed nu-exit from power.	who could control Islamic Revolution merous crimes against the Afghan re-
On March 18, Najib had an- from spreading to Central Asia.	sistance. His agents were involved in
nounced that he was ready to hand over power to a transitional neutral government formed through the UN peace process.
This announcement came after the regime had lost Mazar, the most important city after Kabul, to its opponents.
On April 10, the UN Secretary-General Boutros Ghali announced formation of a pre-transition neutral council to transfer power from the Kabul regime to a transitional government formed through the UN peace process.
Military operations, initiated by Ahmad Shah Masood, resulted in the '	Faculty of Health of Kabul University,
fall of Salang, Jabulseraj, Charikar and Najib had convinced the outside Najib was introduced to Anahita, a Bagram Air Base within two days. world, including neighboring countries, leader of Parcham faction of the PDPA.
Realizing the imminent fall of his that the Mujahideen were not able to Najib soon emerged as the students’ government, Najib decided to leave the defeat him militarily. As a result, these leader of his party in the Kabul country on April 16, peihaps, for the countries had started to put pressure on University. He was jailed once for a purpose of India to join his wife and the Mujahideen to enter a deal with the short while because he had attacked the three children who were sent earlier, ruling Watan Party.	US Vice President Spiro Agnew with
He was prevented to board the waiting Najib entered Afghanistan with an egg when he was visiting Kabul.
UN plane by the rebel soldiers in con- Red Army in December of 1979. He During the time of Daud, Najib’s trol of the airport	lived in exile when he was sacked from father was appointed as the representa-
Having lost every hope, he sought his ambassadorial post in Teheran by tive of Afghan traders in Peshawar, asylum in one of the UN offices in the first communist president Noor This enabled Najib to come to Kabul. The UN special envoy on Mohammad Taraki. His brother, Peshawar and establish good relations Afghanistan who was in Kabul at the Seddiqullah, who defected to the with the leftist and nationalist parties in time of the incident tried his best to get Mujahideen some years ago, accuses Pakistan. He is 45 years old and has Najib out' of Kabul but failed. The him of steeling the Afghan Embassy's three daughters who live in India with Foreign Minister of the regime Abdul funds before arriving in Prague, their mother.
Wakil told reporters that the people of Czechoslovakia, to join Babrak The down fall of Najib has opened Afghanistan should decide about the Karmal. Najib spent some time in the way for establishment of an Islamic fate of Najib whom he described as 'the England and France as the guest of the government in Afghanistan and has hated dictator1.	communist parties in these countries closed a bloody picture of Afghan his-
Najib became the president of the before being summoned to Moscow to tory which began on April 27, 1978. It Kabul regime in 1987 with the bless- be taken to Afghanistan.	is hoped that Afghan Mujahideen seize
- ings of the Soviets. During his rule, the Immediately after his return, he this opportunity to foim a government Soviet troops left Afghanistan, was put on top of the secret police of acceptable to the majority of Afghans. Moscow’s massive economic, military and political support continued reach him until the disintegration of the Soviet empire itself.
Najib survived for three long years after the Soviet troops withdrawal, partly due to divisions among the Mujahideen and mainly because of massive Soviet support to his regime.
When the Soviet aid dried, Najib lost control of militiamen and army because he was no longer able to provide them with the benefits that they demand in return for fighting against the Mujahideen.
Najib had adopted a sophisticated military and political policy against die Mujahideen. IBs national reconciliation
bomb explosions in Pakistan.
When Soviets wanted to change their Afghan policy, they needed a new face whom they trusted. Najib was the choice. His loyalty to Soviet Union, ruthlessness in dealing with opponents, his sophistication, power of communication and, finally, ethnic background made him an ideal candidate to repice Babrak Karmal.
Najib was bom in a Pushtoon family of Ahmad Zai tribe. His father came from Sayyed Karam District in Paktia Province. When he was a student of the