AFGHANews Vol 7, No 3, February 1, 1991, page ®



O. Box 264, Peshawar- Patriatao ’fl If	Teh	(0521)	41381,	FAJW0S2I)	42410	j
i__________________________	-.____________j
Regime's national reconciliation ignored by majority of Afghans
The Kabul regime recently celebrated the fourth anniversary of the declaration of National Reconciliation. To mark the occasion, meetings were held in Kabul and Moscow; regime radio and TV, as well as Soviet media, broadcast special programs and some prisoners were granted amnesty.
The Soviet and regime media boasted of the achievements of national reconciliation, claiming that 50 coalition administrative units have been formed in different parts of Afghanistan; 120,000 armed Mujahideen have joined the regime; 325,000,refugees have returned home and 75 per cent of all commanders have abandoned armed struggle because of this program.
The Soviets introduced national reconciliation in 1986 to add a.political dimension to the war. When they invaded Afghanistan in 1979, they thought that their operation would be a police action of short duration. This proved wrong and despite the massive use of force, the Afghan resistance was not subdued. After Gorbachev came to power, he intensified the war to defeat the Mujahideen and get rid of what he described as ’the bleeding wound'. Like his three predecessors he failed. He then introduced national reconciliation which was aimed at weakening the resistance at home and reducing world sympathy for them.
To begin with, the Soviets replaced Babrak Karmal with Najib, the then head of the secret police of the regime, KHAD. Communist slogans were set aside; religious slogans were introduced and money was distributed lavishly to buy the loyalty of Mujahideen. In order to improve the image of Najib, a fake parliamentary system was introduced and a constitution was adopted.
As long as the Soviet troops were present in Afghanistan, national reconciliation failed to lure Mujahideen towards the regime, and failed to generate outside sympathy for the regime, which was considered a tool of Moscow. After the Soviet troop withdrawal, national reconciliation took the form of a proposal for a coalition government, in which communists and Mujahideen would take part No major Mujahideen group has joined the regime or is ready to deal with it. Sell-outs by a few Mujahideen groups here and there have been caused by local rivalries and financial attractions rather than calculated political choices, as the regime claims. Kabul's declarations that 120,000 armed Mujahideen have defected are highly exaggerated, as are claims regarding the return of the refugees. Some refugees might have returned to liberated areas, but others have left the country, and the trend in no way bears out the success of the national reconciliation program. Stalemate on the battlefield does not mean the majority of the Mujahideen have stopped fighting the Kabul regime and have accepted national reconciliation. It involves other reasons: logistical problems, political problems among the Mujahideen and the change in the nature of the war. Mujahideen groups are united in opposition to the Kabul regime.,
Najib's talk of political pluralism, while he runs a fraction of the country with the help of his secret police, army and militia forces, is a farce. Lip service toward a market economy, in a country devastated by the Soviet war machine, is designed to interest outsiders.
The program has met with some success outside Afghanistan. The world’s desire to find political solutions to regional issues has been used by Najib, who offers dialogue and power-sharing with his opponents. But a lot of people outside Afghanistan know that he is responsible for much Afghan misery.
The national reconciliation program has failed to win the support of the resistance. Not only this, it has also failed to stop infighting within the regime itself. National reconciliation has no chance of success because the gap between the communist regime and the Mujahideen is so wide that it cannot be bridged by cosmetic changes. The only way out of the present situation is the dismissal of the Kabul regime from power, allowing Afghans to decide their own future.
Soviets plunder Afghanistan gas
A Mujahideen commander has said that Soviet experts are involved in extraction of natural gas in Afghanistan and its export to the Soviet Union.
Experts say the Soviet Central Asian republics suffered from an Afghan natural gas cut because Soviet Union is exporting its own natural gas to Western Europe to get hard cash.
Export of natural gas, which was stopped immediately after the Soviet troop withdrawal in 1989, is supposed to be resumed in the near future. Natural gas is found in Jawzjan Province close to the Soviet border.
The experts say resumption of natural gas exports might have been prompted by the Soviet economic difficulties rather the needs of the Kabul regime.
Official figures showed that gas exports to the Soviet Union in 1985 reached 2500 million cubic meters per year, but Western sources say the actual figure might be four times higher. Meters for measuring natural gas are installed inside Soviet territory, making it difficult to know the exact amount of gas exported to that country.
Moscow pays 12 US dollars for each 1000 cubic meters of Afghan gas. This price is much less than the price of gas in the open market and lower than the price Moscow receives for exports of natural gas to Europe. Furthermore, Moscow does not pay hard cash for Afghan gas. The gas is bartered for military hardware, usually second-hand and food given to the Kabul regime.
Bessmetnykh Soviet Foreign Minister
Alexander Bessmetnykh, a career diplomat, has been appointed as the new Soviet Foreign Minster.
He replaces Edward Shevardnadze who resigned in December because of internal opposition to his policies.
Bessmetnykh was appointed as the Soviet Ambassador to Washington in May 1990 and before that he served as a Deputy Foreign Minister of USSR.
Bessmetnykh was not directly involved in negotiation about Afghanistan before his Washington post But after assuming office in Washington, he led the Soviet delegation in the talks between US and USSR experts to find a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan.