AFGHANews Vol7, Noll, June 1,'1991, page ©
UN chief presents Afghan peace plan
Diplomatic activities to find a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan entered a new phase when the UN Secretary-General announced a five-point plan for achievement of peace in Afghanistan.
The UN formula recongnizes the right of Afghans for self-determination and preservation of the Islamic character of Afghanistan. It envisages a transitional period and formation of a transitional administration acceptable to all sides. The plan recommends cease-fire and imposition of arms embargo on both sides of the conflict during the transitional period. According to plan, the transitional administration will organize elections for establishment of a representative government;
The plan has been welcomed by Pakistan, US and the Kabul regime. Iran supports a political solution of Afghan problem through holding elections.
Two Mujahideen leaders. Prof. Sayyaf and Hikmatyar, rejecting the plan called it a conspiracy against the Mujahideen. Other leaders have been waiting for details of the plan before reacting to it.
Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's representative has been shutting between Kabul, Islamabad and Tehran in the past few week to discuss the issue with concerned parties. In Peshawar, he met with some Mujahideen leaders and the Council of Commanders. It seems that Sevan is trying to find common ground among
all sides in the conflict.
Pakistan has increased its diplomatic activities for finding a political settlement of the Afghan issue. Akram Zaki, the Foreign Secretary of Pakistan, visited Riyadh and Tehran to discuss ways of bringing peace to Afghanistan with the leaders of Saudi and Iran. Another Pakistani delegation, headed by Riaz Ahmad Khan, is currently visiting Moscow for talks with the Soviet officials.
Meanwhile, Prof. Mujaddidi, Prof. Rabbani and two other Mujahideen leaders visited Tehran at the invitation of Islamic Republic to discuss Afghan situation with the Iranian leaders, prior to Zaki's visit to Tehran. These leaders also held talks with Hezb Wahdat, a Mujahideen party based in Tehran.
While these political moves have generated hope about a political solution, it is too early to justify such an optimism. The Mujahideen are unanimous in rejecting any role for PDPA. They want Najib to step down and PDPA to transfer power to an representative government.
The Soviet and the Kabul regime have stuck to their former position ruling out exclusion of the Kabul from any political process.
While activities for achievement of a political settlement has intensified, both the Mujahideen and the Soviet-backed Najib regime want to improve their military position so that they can speak from a position of strength.
Kabul celebrates Khalili’s birthday
Kabul regime commemorated the 86th birthday of famous Afghan poet, Khalilullah Khalili, who died in Pakistan as a refugee some years ago, Kabul Radio reported.
In a meeting, organized by the Ministry of Information and Culture of the Kabul regime, speakers paid rich tributes to the late Prof. Khalili. The meeting ended by holding a concert!
Ustad Khalili was a renowned Afghan poet whose reputation had spread beyond the borders of Afghanistan.
He spent the last years of his life in Pakistan with the refugees and Mujahideen where he continued to write poetry in support of Jehad. During this period he became very close to the ordinary people of
Afghanistan and won their respect and admiration.
The Kabul decision to celebrate his birthday is part of the regime drive for improving its dented image, the same way that it misuses Islam and Afghan history.
UN builds guest house
The Kabul regime is negotiating with UN officials in Kabul over the establishment of a "Peace Guest House," with a capacity of 5000 people, in Jalalabad, Kabul radio reported.
A "peace guest house” is a temporary center for returning refugees. These guest houses are run by the regime but funded by the UN. One such a guest house has been opened in Herat to receive returning refugees from Iran.
Another triumph
From page (4) to the problem of Afghanistan, over shadowed the Mujahideen's victory in Takhar. Absence of Kabul public reaction to the fall of Khawja Ghar de prived the Mujahideen of publicity around the their significant military achievement in the north.
The Mujahideen's victory at Khawja Ghar demonstrated that the strategy of attacking smaller targets, rather than launching attacks on Kabul, is a wise program. This strategy was agreed upon by the Council of Commanders held in Shah Salim at the end of 1990.
. Finally, the liberation of Khawja Ghar has raised the morale of the Mujahideen paving the way for further victories against the Kabul regime.
Khwaja Ghar
From page (1)
Commando1 Bashir who had no part in the operation continues to send reports of his victories. His men in Peshawar bitterly quarreled with a local BBC reporter who had reported the liberation of Khwaja Ghar undo the command ofMasood.
The Kabul regime still has presence in Yangi Qala and part of Rustac District. Regime troops in the area are in constant touch with the Soviet authorities and use Soviet territory as a transit route for bringing supplies and reinforcement. The Mujahideen are determined to continue their drive for clearing the area from the presence o! the Kabul armed men.
The arms and ammunition captured in Khwaja Ghar enable the Mujahideen to launch large-scale attacks against the remaining garrisons of the enemy in the area.
tHeCp us puStish ftfQtHJAfhfezvs!
Ttease send your donations to tfie foCCerwing account numBer:
yEd&D ‘Account ‘Ng. 735-37 9ta6ib ‘Banf^Ltd.
Tjefdqd ‘Bata, ‘Pesfuiwar Batistan