AFGHANews Vol 5, No 7, April 1, 1989, Page ©
Ahmad Shah Masood has rejected the report of some news agencies that the Mujahideen and the puppet regime have reached an agreement along the Salang highway.
In a letter to Afghanews he said that the report of western news agencies that the regime convoys were not being attacked by the Mujahideen along the Salang highway was not true. The Mujahideen are active along the highway and their attacks have been reported, he added.
Masood said that the reports of agreements were based on disinformation spread by the enemy as part of . its psychological warfare against the Mujahideen. "Reporters should be on their guard against Soviets andregime propaganda". He warned.
He has drawn the attention of the media towards the continuation of intensive fighting which started before the completion of the Soviet withdrawal
The purpose of the propaganda seems to be to create divisions among the Mujahideen. In the past such rumors have caused misunderstanding between them.
Ahmad Shah Masood controls a large part of the areas on both sides of the Salang highway.
Some weeks ago the regime brought some elders of the villages along the Salang highway to Kabul and signed an agreement with them. According to these agreements the eld-os are supposed to provide the security for the government convoys in their areas. If they fail to do so, the regime will have a right to launch retaliatory attacks.
Jami’at leader, Karim Agha Kahan discuss reconstruction issue
The Jami'at leader has discussed the rehabilitation of refugees and reconstruction of Afghanistan with the spiritual leader of the Ismaielia community, Karim Agha Khan.
The meeting was held in Karachi on March 20 and lasted for 45 minutes.
Hie Agha Khan assured Professor Rabbani of his support to the reconstruction program of the Mujahideen. He emphasized that the projects supported by him will benefit all the inhabitants of the area and will not be limited to the Ismaielia community.
The followers of the Ismaielia sect live in different parts of Afghanistan but a large number of them live in Badakhshan along the borders with Pakistan and Soviet Union.
The problem of addiction to opium and how it could be corrected also came under discussion: The two sides agreed that an effective way to fight the problem is to provide job opportunities for the people and to pay attention to their education.
Addiction to opium is common among the Ismaielia community in Afghanistan. The Agha Khan as their spiritual leader has forbidden the use, trade and cultivation of opium.
The Agha Khan has similar projects in Chitral and Gilgit in Pakistan. According to him these projects have been successful and could serve as an example for the work inside Afghanistan.
Jami'at has been treating the Ismaielia community well. The community made the mistake of taking sides with the communists but when the regime forces were defeated in Keran-Munjan where a large number of these people live, they were allowed to keep their guns and choose their own leaders.
The areas where the Ismaielia community lives are very cold and economically backward. The Mujahideen are interested in providing the people in these areas with essential needs like food, medicine, clothes and education.
; AFGHANi6 WS:	;;:
a
itjsj:	arid	j&imi	;
UN teaches Afghans how to defuse mines
The UN has started a program to train 15,000 Afghan refugees in mine clearing techniques.
Seventeen experts from different countries have set up a training camp near Peshawar.
The UN will not play any role in mine clearing in Afghanistan and its program will be limited to spreading awareness about the danger of mines and how they could be defused.
The Soviets and their puppet army have planted millions of mines all over Afghanistan. Unless the mine fields are cleared, the refugees will not feel safe to return and resume normal life in their country.
A group of UN women experts will also come to Pakistan to train women refugees in demining.
The program is at its initial phase and it is intended to complete the training of thel5,000 refugees in 18 months.
Sir Geoffrey calls on Mujjadidi
Sibghatullah Mujaddidi, the president of the interim government of the Mujahideen met with British Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe, in Islamabad on monday, March 27. The two leaders discussed the latest situation in Afghanistan.
Mujaddidi was accompanied by Sayyed Ahmad Gailani the leader of N1FA and Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, the Foreign Minister of the Interim Government of the Mujahideen.