AFGHAN NEWS
No. 5
17-3-1985
.P-J2.
 While returning from a 37 days operation at Zari, the. enemy forces were ambushed by Mujahideen from that area. The ambush resulted in the death of kO soldiers and the destruction of 3 vehicles and five tanks. One Mujahid was killed and two wounded.
 The report says that during operations lasting 37 days, Sufi Mohammad Amin, Commander of the western part of Mazar city, and fSLve Mujahideen were martyred.
 _l8-2:85_
 A high-ranking government military officer was executed by Mujahideen,
  13-2-85
 The report says that the area of Shoulgar has been bombarded by the enemy resulting in the death of many innocent civilians mostly children, old men and women. It is Reported that the enemy killed about, 30 of their own soldiers by mistake during this bombardment.
 The report says that Mujahideen shot down three helicopters.
 During an operation in two cities of Mazar, Commander Sediq an effe-ctive urban Commander was martyred, During this operation the deputy head and director of investigation of the Khad ( government intelligence network) were killed and four other wounded.
 _2-2-85;-,
 Mujahideen of the city of Mazar attacked Chatary government post at h p.ra, 8 AK-1)-7s were seized and 6 soldiers were captured.
 A Gaz-66 (Russian military truck) loaded with enemy soldiers was ambushed and' destroyed by Mujahideen of Mazar city. All soldiers were reportedly killed.
 ^16-1-85.
 Russian-Karmal forces launched a severe attack on Zari area of Sho-ulger district. Zari is one of the Mujahideen^; strongholds of Mazar (the strongest). The offensive lasted for 37 days which resulted in the death of about 200 enemy soldiers, 3 personnel carrier and seven tanks were destroyed.
 _23-11-85
 During an operation at Seh-j®i Mujahideen were able to destroy six different kinds of vehicles including 2 tanks.
  26-1-85.
 A Mujahid group'under Ghulam Sakhi was able to capture 8 members of the Fatherland Front and seized at least 9 Karabeen and. AX-47s«