AFGHANews Vol7, No 14, July 15,1991, page Q
Editorial
3
Extreme views undermine opportunity for consensus
In order to deal with the current state of affairs in Afghanistan, the Mujahideen must arrive forthwith at a consensus on major political and military issues. Every effort should be made to achieve harmony between the resistance parties and to coordinate their military and political activities.
The only common ground among all the resistance groups is opposition to the communist regime in Kabul. This is the issue around which the Mujahideen should rally. The military and political efforts of the resistance must focus on the removal of the regime.
But the Mujahideen differ among themselves regarding the means. Extreme attitudes among some resistance groups must be corrected, because they keep the resistance from reaching the required consensus.
Some parties reject political initiatives proposed by the UN and countries not directly involved in the conflict, dubbing them "conspiracies against Islam."
Others over-emphasize such international political initiatives at the expense of military efforts against the regime. Some groups insist on political concessions from other Mujahideen as a precondition for even trying to reach an understanding.
The extremists' knee-jetk rejection of political initiatives and the insults they direct at the originators understandably weaken support for the resistance. Our cause is just, whether the outside world helps us or not, but such support can directly affect the outcome of our struggle, as well as support for the refugees and post-war reconstruction efforts.
The Mujahideen's cause has been popular not only among foreign governments, but also among ordinary people in those countries. Behavior which could alienate the resistance's foreign supporters is extremely dangerous, for the Kabul regime will exploit every mistake we make.
Some Mujahideen leaders act like the heads of student activist groups or minor political parties in peaceful countries. The Mujahideen have outgrown than. War continues and the future of millions of Afghans and Of peace throughout this region are at stake. Mujahideen should expect their leaders to behave more responsibly than any head of state.
Nor does this mean that Mujahideen leaders should abandon their struggle in order to please foreigners. They should combine a firm stand on principles with a rational approach.
At the opposite extreme, some groups give undue importance to outside political initiatives, ignoring the necessity of maintaining military pressure on the regime. These groups underestimate both the regime's military potential and that of rival Mujahideen parties.
Developments after the Gulf crisis demonstrated this clearly. Mujahideen parties which had supported Allied war efforts formed a new alliance in a bid to muster outside support This development allowed the former king to intensify his political efforts.
Demands for political concessions on ethnic or religious bases have further hindered attempts at unity. Hezb Wahdat, a Shia party based in Iran, has refused to participate in a propose commission with Peshawar-based Mujahideen, on the ground that they have been accorded too few seats on it
As Prof. Rabbani has said, the main problem is that some parties assume the current arrangements are permanent, when in fact they are only meant to address the immediate situation, and any inequities may be resolved later. Disputes over the number of seats accorded parties in the commission should not be allowed to impede a consensus.
m* To page (8)
UN hopeful about political settlement
The UN Secretary General's special envoy on Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, has said that the majority of Afghans supported the UN five-point plan.
He has left for Geneva to talk with representatives of Iran and then will go to Rome to meet with the former king, who has intensified his efforts to play a role in the peace process.
The UN announced its plan for the settlement of Afghan issue on May 21. According to the plan, the supply of arms should be stopped to both sides of the conflict; an interim administration should be formed in Kabul and elections should be held for the formation of a permanent government. To do these things, the plan envisages holding talks between Afghans. All the resistance parties have expressed their opposition to the participation of Kabul in such talks. Two Mujahideen leaders, Sayyaf and Hikmatyar, have rejected the UN plan, while the rest have shown reservations about some of its points.
Meanwhile, Pakistan's Foreign Ministry has increased its efforts to find a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan. Akram Zaki, the Foreign Secretary of Pakistan held talks with some Mujahideen leaders in Peshawar. They included Prof. Rabbani, Prof. Mujaddidi, Sayyed Ahmad Gailani and representatives of other parties. The purpose of these activities is to coordinate the position of the Mujahideen and the government of Pakistan on evolving a formula for the political solution of the Afghan problem.
Zaki's visit to Peshawar indicates the active role of the Foreign Ministry of Pakistan, which has started to play in dealing with the political aspect of the Afghan issue. He also met with the 28-member commission of the Afghan parties, which is assigned the job of evolving a consensus formula for the political solution.
While the 28-member commission continues its work, the Iran-based Wahdat Party refused to participate in its meetings over the issue of the number of seats they had been accorded. Wahdat Party demands five seats, while it has been offered two seats. The delegation of the Wahdat Party left Pakistan without reaching an agreement on this issue, but left behind an observer on the commission.
The commission could not make
To page (7)