AFGHANews Vol 6, No 9, May 1, 1990, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Mohammad Ibrahim, known as Commander Sadiq, was bom into a religious family in Madad Khail village, of Chak District, 38 years ago.
His father, Mohammad Alam, who is now 100 years old, is a religious scholar (Mawlawi) who worked as a store keeper in Chak Power Plant.
Mohammad Ibrahim’s family led an average economic life. Ibrahim completed high school in Chak, then worked as a government officer in Bamyan, Kandahar, Herat and Farah provinces before joining the Mujahideen.
Ibrahim's family had a history of rebellion against the rulers in Kabul. His grandfather. Mullah Subhan, was sent off to internal exile in Khanabad for his activities against King Amanullah. Like most Afghans he was not happy about the alien reforms which Amanullah had introduced, and considered them anti-Islamic. With the intercession of Hazrat Sahib-i-Shoor Bazar, an influential spiritual leader of Kabul, the family was able to return to Wardak after Amanullah was deposed in 1929.
Mohammad Ibrahim was involved in the Islamic movement from childhood because his uncle, Maulawi Abdurrab, was a great religious scholar who published Gahiz, an Islamic news paper. He became the editor of the paper after its previous editor. Mujahideen Gahiz, was assassinated by Soviet agents in early seventies.
Mawlawi Abdurrab was captured immediately after the April coup of 1978 along with his son, a nephew and two other relatives. They never returned home. It is thought they were killed secretly by the communist regime.
In 1979, Mohammad Ibrahim left his job in the government and joined the Mujahideen. At the start, he headed the Recruiting Committee of Jami'at in Chak. After one year he was chosen as the Jami'at commander for the district His headquarters is located at the Chak Power Plant.
Some of Commander Ibrahim's operations have included the following:
In 1980 the Soviets launched a large attack against the Chak Valley. In heavy fighting between them and the Mujahideen, the Soviets and regime forces suffered heavy casualties. Some Mujahideen and civilians were also killed.
The Mujahideen's successful defense was possible because they were
well-armed. The Kabul regime had distributed more than 10,000 guns in Wardak to be used against Mujahideen in Hazarajat, who had revolted against the communist regime in Kabul. The people from Wardak took the guns, but used them against the Soviets and the regime.
In an ambush on Kabul-Ghazni road near Saikh Abad in June 1986 Commander Ibrahim's Mujahideen destroyed six trucks and ten tanks and armored cars, and killed a great many enemy troops.
In fall of 1984 Chak district was liberated by Mujahideen. Jami'at played an important role.
Commander Ibrahim is from the Mir Khail tribe and his mother tongue is Pushtu. He is married and has five children.
NEW DUPUTY FOR WAD
The Kabul regime has appointed General Hasamuddin Hasam as the Deputy Minister of Sate Security, WAD.
The former deputy minister of WAD, General Razminda was killed in Herat along with other ranking regime officers on April 6.
The new deputy minister of WAD visited Pushtoon Zarghoon district, the scene of the recent clashes in which many regime officers were killed by the Mujahideen.
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
4j	j
A broken hand can work but a broken hear can’t.
Meaning: A physical handicap can be overcome, but a wounded spirit cannot be overcome.
Ji,
A*
\j
Aii,
May God not make one hand dependent on the other.
Meaning: Each one should bear his burden and should his own responsibilities.
AJJLqi iyj	tfJoJUMJ
Hearing is never as good as seeing. Meaning: One picture is worth thousands of words.
A bad wound heals, but a bad word doesn't.
Meaning: A cruel tongue does more harm than sharp sword.
6 j*?
O£ wL*£k£i>

The goat hiding from death passed the night in the butcher’s house. Meaning: Out of the frying pan into the fire.


messenger, peace and blessings of Allah be on him, forbade trade in which there
Illil
wmm
liiitii
1BF8*
is vagueness and deception (Gharar )
..	.	;s:i	'•
and trade based on chance.

have yet to be caught
a birds siiit in the
