  MGflAM-MWS__YOL.il___ML21___1/11/1986 PAGE 10
 million people heue been killed (confirmed by the UN commission on violation of Human Rights In Afghanistan). 75% of all the villages and touins hove been destroyed. In short, a notion Is dying ond o beautiful culture is close to destruction. This is o great tragedy, the largest at the present time.
 Since this tragedy Is played by a super-power, a member of the Security Council and one who votes three times in the 6eneral Rssmbly it must be taken seriously.
 The Soviets have designs beyond their borders. They believe in the division of the world into spheres of influence between the superpowers. If one odds to the above facts the military power this country has and the intentions It hos shown in using it against defenseless countries it becomes obvious that they ore posing o real threat to peace.
 The outcome of wor In Afghanistan will have great consequences on world peace. If the Soviets are victorious, they will be encouraged to repeat what they did In Afghanistan. If they succeed in pacifying Afghanistan and Imposing a puppet regime In Kabul all the small countries will not feel safe ond world tension will increase. This will cause polorzatlon which is not constructive for world peace.
 After seven years of wor the Soviets are not closer to winning the wor.They have failed to crush the resistance and to win o popular base for the puppet regime they have Installed. In the International scene their invasion Is still rejected.
 The Soviets' real Intention seems to be to seek a military solution to the problem of Afghanistan. The new Soviet leader Is more sophisticated than his predecessor. He talks about peace and the withdrawal of troops but from all the military build up it seems he Is planning a long stay In Afghanistan. The Soviets ore using the 6eneva proximity talks to appear to seek peace but what they are doing Is buying time to win the war with little political cost. Asking for a period of four years to withdraw their forces reveals their real Intentions.
 The solution to the problem of Afghanistan comes through a combination of military and political measures.
 Those who have invaded a country must pay the price of their invasion.They should not be left to enjoy their stay in the occupied country. To do this armed resistance is a must and a proper tool In the hand of the Mujahideen of Afghanistan. If we are weak and the Soviets pacify Afghanistan they will not hove any issues to talk about. A strong resistance is a guarantee to a final solution to the problem of Afghanistan.