AFGHANews Vol 8, No 23, December 1,1992, page (jj
Dr. Sayyed Amir Shah Hasany has been appointed (be new dean Kabul University. The government keen to open the university as soon possible. Due to lack of facilities, ! university might not be opened 1 «.Tt_ytar.. .
;;*x v ■
Germany has promised to gi seven million Deutschmarks as emi geacy aid to Afghanistan, a source the Ministry of Planning.said..
from repaying a loa liofl. Bonn has also some agricultural Afghanistan. ' • ■ A German de visited Kabul u> as the people and suid ing support to Afgh
. i %
belong to different i and are not affiliated ps»ny.
this move is an sion in view of th caused by 14 yesus v try is strongly fecli«] ports in various fie needs to pave iha vv of Afghans living m • schools and uriivecsti
Some intellectuals in eluding some professors University, were angry Kabul TV dcciscn to bra the press confercfice of Fazlur Rahman of Jamaai Pakistan.
they wore not happy dgnew being involved in p tutuons betweec tbe gover Herb Isbmi ITtey arguct cigncrs have their own which are not jtecessarily bonal interest of Afghans. ■ Another objection wa< spectfui way some felt Fazlur Ratwnan treated tl ment to his ?obnfi
Has UN learned from its mistakes in Afghanistan?
History is recorded in or der that people may avoid the mistakes committed by their predecessors.
The new special envoy of the UN Secretary-General should study the work of his two predecessors-Cordovez and Sevan - carefully to avoid the mistake they committed. They listened too much to people living in exile and ignored the realities on the ground. This was the reason for the failure of their efforts to bring peace to Afghanistan.
It seems that the same people who misled the two previous UN envoys are irying to mislead the new one.
One of these people in Peshawar is Rasool Amin who is the head of Writers' Union of Free Afghanistan (WUFA). He meets diplomats, talks to UN officials, hold seminars, funded by the US, and is given time to express his views on VOA and BBC several times each week.
Amin is a staunch supponcr of the former king and a promoter of the Loya Jirga, the King's traditional rubber-stamp assembly. ’
He is sharply biased against the government, and draws ugly, misleading and often simply inaccurate pictures of events in Kabul - where, to our knowledge, he has not visited since fleeing the country in 1980.
His paper presented at an October seminar in Peshawar on the merits of the Loya Jirga struck one Kabul-based foreign correspondent as "a disengenu-ous work displaying about a seventh-class intellectual level.-'
Amin is one of those "professional analysts" who can streak for hours about nothing. His arguments generally are based on personal belief rather facts.
The UN special envoy has a mandate to help the reconstruction of Afghanistan and if he gives too much attention to such views as these, he is liable to repeat the mistakes of his predecessors. These people should consid-
ered as the spokesmen of a small interest group, not "analysts" of the true situation in Afghanistan.
People like Prof. Amin were al- , lowed to remain in Peshawar in order to be used as tools in the then Pakistan government's political plans. Islamabad believed that die Mujahideen were not acceptable to the Soviets and the Kabul regime w as not acceptable to the people of Alghanistan, Titus a "neutral" government proposed by people like Amin was a solution to thi^ dilemma.
People like Amin were encouraged to stay in Peshawar to be used as neutral figures when the ume came. This way of thinking has dominated UN efforts to find a peaceful solution to the problem of Alghanistan. The impracticable formation of a 15 member council to take over power from Najib under UN auspices was the outcome of years of thinking along neutral lines.
Developments in Afghanistan resulted in the fall of the regime and bypassed die UN plan. Encouraged by the Islamic government's troubles after the establishment of the Islamic government in Kabul, the inaptly-named "neutrals" have became active again. Among their most useful contacts are those in the Pushtu Services of BBC and VOA, who give them an enormously disproportionate amount of time to express their anligovcmmcnl views.
They also introduce other personalities opposed to the regime to the BBC and VOA for interviews. As a result, the Pushtu Services of BBC and VOA have turned into forums for baseless an-ugovemment propaganda.
Sincere efforts by the BBC correspondent based in Kabul to balance the programming have gotten nowhere, perhaps because decision-makers in Bush House have given a free hand to Nabi Misdaq. head of the BBC Pushtu service. Misdaq is blatantly biased against the Islamic government along lines similar to Rasool Amin. "
Naquibullah supports Hal-o-Aqd
"We fought for 14 years to establish an Islamic government in Kabul. This government has been formed. The future leadership, designated by holding a Loya Jirga or Hal-o-Aqd council, is acceptable to us."
So said Commander Naqibullah, the senior commander of Jami’at in Kandahar and the present corps commander of that province, in an inter-
view with the Persian Service of VOA.
About the growth of opium poppy in the province, he said farmers in Kandahar were not interested in growing poppy in the past. Due to the war and disruption of irrigation systems, farmers started to grow poppy. If irrigation system is corrected the farmers will abandon growing opt urn, the commander said.