AFGHANews Vol6, No 13, July 1,1990, page ©
Tears cure better than blood
A certain king had a terrible disease, the nature of which it is not proper to mention. A number of Greek physicians agreed, that there was no other remedy for this disease, but the gall of man, of some particular description. The king ordered one to be sought for, and they found a peasant's son with the properties which the physicians had described. The king sent for the lad's father and mother, and by offering a great reward gained their consent; the cazy (judge) decreed it lawful to shed the blood of a subject for the benefit of restoring the monarch's health.
The executioner prepared to put him to death, upon which the youth turned his eyes towards heaven, and laughed. The king asked, "What there could be in his present condition, which could possibly excite mirth." He replied, "Children look to their parents for affection, a suit is referred, to the cazy, and justice is expected from the monarch. Now my father and mother, seduced by vain worldly consideration, having consented to the shedding of my blood, the judge having sentenced me to die, and the king, for the sake of his own health, having consented to my death, where am I to seek refuge excepting in the high God? Unto whom shall I prefer my suit, since it is against you that I seek justice?" The king's heart was troubled at these words, tears stood in his eyes, and he said, "It is better for me to die, than that the blood of an innocent person should be shed." He kissed his head and eyes, and embraced him, and after bestowing considerable gifts, set him at liberty. They say also that in the same week the king was cured of his distemper.
In application to this, I recall the verse which the elephant driver rehearsed on the banks of the river Nile. "If you are ignorant of the state of the ant under your, foot, know that it resembles your own condition, under the foot of the elephant."
From Gulistan of Shaikh Sa'di
Prof. Rabbani sends condolence message to Iranian leaders
Jami'at	leader,
Burhanuddin Rabbani expressed sorrow for the loss of thousands of Iranian lives in the devastating earthquake of 21st June, 1990.
In a condolence message to the leaders of the Islamic Republic of Iran , Rabbani said he and all other Afghans share the grief of their Iranian brothers and sisters.
The earthquake killed more than 60,000 and injured tens of thousands in Gailan and Zanjan province,, with hundred of thousands homeless. To deal with the devastation, Iran has asked for, and received, international support.
For all Afghans, sympathy for the Iranian people is natural. Iran is a neighbor hosting at least two million Afghan refugees. It has supported the
struggle of Afghans for self-determination, and Religious, linguistic and historic ties bind the two nations.
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
Too many butchers spoiled the cow.
Meaning: Too many cooks spoil the broth.
He has soaked a hundred heads (preparing them for shaving), but hasn't shaved one.
Meaning: Used of a person who starts a lot but does not finish and so has many monuments to unfinished business.
juQ wl
The potter drinks water from a broken jug.
Meaning: Used of a physician who . does not heal himself, or of one who helps others but doesn't help himself.
tfj'A	*	<SJjl
A hungry person hears the sounds of bread being prepared.
(j\flJuy
When man is perplexed God is beneficent. .
Meaning: God comes at last when we think he is farthest off.