   AFGHAN Mgs________YQLJJ_______NO. 21     1/11/19*6PAGE 2
 left school end began to work. This was true for primary as well as university education.
 To speed up the Sovletlzatlon policy of the Invaders In Afghanistan, thousands of children are being sent to the Soviet Union. There too education is not the main purpose. The main alms of all these programs ore Indoctrination and brain-washing.
 The so-called literacy progarm In Kabul does not have a reality. The big figures which are published In the Soviet and Puppet papers are fabricated for propaganda purposes. If there Is any class that Is for political Indoctrination not education
 The Soviet and Puppet enemlty towards educated people and scholars is hidden from no one. This Is why 90% of of all the Afghan scholars who were not communists were killed, jailed or forced into enile.
 This Is why UNESCO's help for the regime is o form of support for the Sovletlzotion policy of the invaders. UNESCO actlvles In Kabul and Its morel and material support for the puppet regime Is considered a hostile action towards the people of Afghanistan who are struggling for
 their freedom.
 Then, why has UNESCO given on award for a regime who has done all this damage to education and which Is a puppet regime controlled by the Soviets?
 The reason could be:
 UNESCO is financing some educational projects in Kabul and the puppet regime Is a member of that organisation. By giving such an award, UNESCO is justifying its illegal stay and activities in Afghanistan.
 2. The infuluence of the Soviet Union In this body is obvious. Through giving an award to the puppet regime they ore gluing a form of legitimacy to the puppets and advertising Its stability. Obviously In this decision the Soviets have ployed an important role.
 Instead of helping the Sovletlzatlon programme of the Soviets In flfghoniston, UNESCO should hove supported schools run by the resistance in the 80% liberated territory of Afghanistan.
 UNESCO has played a foul game for a long time in Afghanistan. By employing a big number of Soviets ond their Indian stooges, providing the ground for more enemy spies to infiltrate Afghanistan.
 The award given to the puppets Is an insult to the cause of freedom and o blind political decision bosed on ignorance and Influenced by the Soviet imperialists.