AFGHANews Vol7, No 19, October 1,1991, page ©
A.I. asks Kabul to review
cases
Amnesty International is concerned that thousands of political prisoners, including prisoners of conscience, who have been sentenced by special tribunals to various terms of imprisonment and to death in Afghanistan over the last 13 years, have not received a fair trial, and that hundreds are still held. It is calling upon the Afghan Government to set up an independent and impartial review procedure to examine the cases of all such prisoners. The review body should be empowered both to order the immediate and unconditional release of prisoners found to have been sentenced simply for the non-violent expression of their political opinion or religious beliefs, and to order a re-trial by a court that conforms to the minimum international safeguards for a fair trial for those prisoners against whom recognizable criminal charges may be laid. Amnesty International is also calling on the Afghan Government to make public information on the reported abolition of special tribunals.
The first special tribunal, the Military Revolutionary Court, dealing with people accused of political offences was established in Afghanistan soon after the military coup of 27 April 1978 which brought to power the People's Democratic Party. of Afghanistan (PDPA) under President' Noor Mohammad Taraki. It was replaced in early 1980 by the Special Revolutionary Court under an interim constitution called THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES under the then President Babrak Karinal. In mid-1988 the Special Revolutionary Court was renamed as the Special Court of National Security, as the government of President Najibullah began to change the socialist outlook of the state in a new effort to win over the op>px>sition. The composition of these tribunals and the nature of political trials, however, remained unchanged. In March 1991, President Najibullah announced that the Special Court of National Security was not longer in existence. However, Amnesty International has no further information on the abolition of the Court or on what may have replaced it.
The accused in these trials did not have the right rtf judicial appeal.
Sentences, including death penalty, simply required confirmation by the President Trials did not normally last more than a few minutes, prisoners did not have access to defence counsel and neither defence nor prosecution witnesses were presented. Judges of these courts were reportedly PDPA members and in some cases recruited from the State Security Intelligence Service itself. Most did not have any legal training or judicial background. Hearings were not public and relatives were seldom informed that trials were taking place, although some trials were filmed for broadcast on television for propaganda purposes and were called "open" trials.
Political prisoners have been tried within a parallel judicial system of special tribunals under the authority of the Ministry of State Security which, in Amnesty International's view, constitutes a separate system of official punishment in violation of international law
This report summarizes a 17-page document (5809 words), Afghanistan: Unfair trials by special tribunals, issued by Amnesty International in August 1991.
Afghan refugees to have less bread
UN wheat for the Afghan refugees in Pakistan this year is less by 2S percent UN official say the organization is facing shortages of funds due to increase of refugee population in many parts of the world.
News from battlefilds
| From page (2)	\
stioyd an enemy mortar in Kotal Baba Sahib on September 13 using heavy weapons.
•One Mujahid was killed and two were inujured when the enemy jets bombed the Mujahideen bases in Mard Kala area on September 16, Commander Feda Mohammad reported.
Ghore Province
•The Mujahideen of Jami'at under the command of Abdul Wahid destroyed three enemy posts, killed 17 enemy soldiers and wounded 11 in Shahrak District on September 4. One Mujahid was killed and one injured in the fighting.
•Four enmey troops were killed four were injured and six captured when the Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked them in Tolak District on September 4.
•The Mujahideen attacked the enemy base in Tolak killing eight militiamen, injuring four and capturing five on September 5, Wakil Mohammad Usman reported.
•Thirteen soldiers were killed, 16 were injured and one tank was destroyed when the Mujahideen attacked the enemy base in Shahrak District on September 7, Commander Abdul Wahid reported.
Badghis Province
•Twenty militiamen defected to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Dara-i-Boom area on September 4 bringing with them 20 guns, two machinguns, two RPG rocket launchers, one ZPU machinegun.


it®
m
pfsfrt
nostle (peace jbe tHHH By him in