Vol 4, No 15	August	1,	1988
UN proposal for a 'national government'
THE UN envoy for Afghanistan. Mr. Cordovez, at the end of a 12 days mission to Pakistan and Afghanistan for forming a broad-based government, proposed a plan which calls for a cease-fire following a "cooling-off " period to allow the holding of aLoya jirga by March 1 and the subsequent formation of a “national government of peace."
Mr, Cordovez started this mission on June 29 when he stopped over in Tehran from Geneva to have, for the first time, a consultation with the representative of the Afghan $hia parties based in Iran, Cordovez went to Kabul ft&d after two days of Meetings with the regime leaders he immediately announced a plan for forming r 0 "national government of I peace" to be elected through a toy a Jirga or traditional r grand assembly on September 1 1, though the Kabul regime , was silent about his proposal. According to him, the government members will be i composed of “non-partisan, Independent and impartial Afghans." He also suggested a “cooling-off'1 period for six months during which the Mujahideen should stop active struggle in order to pave the way for the formation of a “national government of peace" falling on September 15-
Reasoning the basis for his new move, he thought different approaches to building a broad-based government have already been tried without success. The policy of ‘national reconciliation' adopted by the Kabul regime failed to produce a coalition government.
Emphasizing the idea of a “cooling-off" period, he said all the leaders of the Mujahideen should agree on the cessation of active struggle to allow refugee repatriation and the international Community to extend their humanitarian assistance for the reconstruction of the country,
The seven party Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen and Us interim government have rejected the proposal, though two of its member parties headed by Mr. Gailani and Mr, Mujaddudi have welcomed the move.
To form a broad-based Islamic government, the Alliance argues that since the majority of the population and territory is under the Mujahideens control, a fair and comprehensive election can only be held by the Mujahideen who are the real representatives of the Afghan people.
From the over-all
context of the proposal it seems that the plan that Mr. Cordovez has crystal ized to proceed with lacks practical dimension as far as the composition and formation of a broad-based government or to his favour ‘national governmnet of peace" is concerned. The type of such a government that he envisages to come through a Leya Jirga under the present Communist regime can not be Impartial.
Moreover, the regime will not tolerate a fair election which will obviously result in the loss of Communist power.
aniMMMMMHMMMH
Mujahideen
recapture
gas-well
ON May 15, joint Russian-DRA forces entered Faryab province aiming at reinforcing their posts and covering a gas-well in Gaisar district near Soviet border.
Quoting a gas and oil experts jamiat Commander said. In order to avoid the discovery by the Mujahideen, the Russians recently covered the gas field and extended underground pipe-lines connecting it to a main field across the border on the Soviet territory. But, he said, after 20 days of fighting the Russians left the area and later on the gas well leaked and blew off the cover which it means, due to its outward pressure, It is impossible to approach nearer than SO meters to the field,
There is no expert to work on the problem and the gas still continues err up ting.