~ ~	AFGHANews	V0I6,	No	7,	April	1,1990, page ©
Hikmatyar's support for Khalqis' line separating Mujahideen from
By: Abdullah Mujahid
The failed coup of Gen. Tariai, which was supported by Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar), will have far-reaching effects on both the resistance and com- -munist regime.
The coup was an attempt by the Khalq faction of PDPA to take power. General Shah Nawaz Tanai, the Kabul regime defence minister and the head of the Khalq faction of PDPA, has been trying since the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan to take power from Kabul strongman Dr. Najibullah, who is the head of Parcham faction. To do that, Tanai wanted to have the support of some Mujahideen groups.
Among the Mujahideen parties, Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) showed keen interest in deposing Najib through a military coup. They adopted this tactic after the Mujahideen's failure to defeat the Kabul regime in conventional warfare at Jalalabad and on other fronts.
The coup began March 6 and was openly supported by Hezb. This support resulted in little if any practical benefit for mutineers. The life of uprising was so short that no time was left for Hezb Mujahideen to support the mutineers even if they had been in a position to do so.
Hezb's support for the coup might even have weakened the position of rebellious soldiers. Since Hezb has a reputation for ruthlessness among the regime’s supporters, their cooperation with Tanai might have made Khalqi soldiers hesitant to support the coup.
Just as the Hezb alliance with Tanai must have surprised members of the Khalq faction, it also surprised Mujahideen parties, ordinary Afghans and foreign observers.
Why were they surprised?
Hezb leadership have always displayed a revolutionary and uncompromising facade. These policies had gained the admiration of some young Afghans and some Islamic parties outside Afghanistan, from which Hezb benefitted materially and politically.
Hezb left AIG over the issue of elections and announced that it will not support any unelected set-up ! It also supported local elections in Kunar to prove its popularity among the people.
How is it that Hezb cannot get along with other Mujahideen parties, but can cooperate with a communist
faction famous for its unbridled atrocities?
Hezb played a risky game by supporting the coup, because it was confident that it would succeed. A coup launched by the defence minister of a country, thought to have the support of most of the army, should have succeeded. Success would have paved the way for power-sharing between the Khalq faction and Hezb Islami.
Had the coup been successful, other Mujahideen parties would have been caught by surprise and would have not been able to pose an immediate threat to the Khalq-Hezb Alliance.
Hezb also might have thought that a government formed through a successful coup would have been recognized by the outside world. Because of the involvement of a Mujahideen group, pro-Mujahideen countries would have recognized the new government, and because of presence of Khalq faction in it Soviet Union would have not opposed it
The strong desire of supporters of the Mujahideen to see Afghan problems solved might have given Hezb the impression that they would support any move against Najib, and that other Mujahideen parties' reactions could be checked.
A successful coup would «ot have brought peace. Most of the Mujahideen would have found the alliance unacceptable and a dangerous threat to their survival and would have opposed it. hereisrioinformationavailableabout
The way power would have been shared between Hezb and Khalq faction, but it is clear that Tanai and his politburo friends would have not been satisfied with less 50% of power.
In a press conference organized by Hezb in Logar, Tanai said he was still a member of Khalq and defence minister of the PDPA. Hezb spokesman who translated Tanai's press conference tried very hard make the journalists understand that there was no alliance between Hezb and Tanai, but they had "strategic cooperation".
Hikmatyar does not call the cooperation with Tanai an alliance; he calls it Tanai's surrender to Hezb.
Now that the coup has failed, what will be its effect on developments in Afghanistan?
The coup widened the gap between Hezb and the other Mujahideen parties which cannot now be easily bridged. Although there were differences between Hezb' and other Mujahideen parties in the past, neither side justified the rift on religious grounds. Unfortunately the Tanai coup changed the situation. Other Mujahideen parties have denounced Hezb’s position on the basis of religion.
The coup will have a negative effect on Hezb Islami itself. Most of the ordinary members of Hezb, especially those on the battlefields, will find cooperation with Khalqis unacceptable. Hezb members will come undo* pressure from the rival groups among the resistance. They will find it difficult defend their party position, rdinary Afghans will not believe Hezb’s slogans in favor of establishing pure Islamic government in Afghanistan, but will consider them a pretext for seizing power.
The rift between the Mujahideen parties in Peshawar will make Shia parties less willing to join the interim government The Shia groups are trying to gain more ethnic and religious concessions from the Peshawar-based parties.
The coup was a blow to the popularity of Jehad, both at home and abroad.The strength of Jehad was its simple nature. It was understandable to Afghans and foreigners alike. The Muslim Mujahideen were trying to overthrow the Godless communists.
During the Soviet occupation Afghans and outsiders alike found the motives behind the fighting easily understandable, and supported the Jehad.
After the Soviet troop withdrawal the outsiders, mainly Westerners, found it less understandable that they should support the Mujahideen against communists in Kabul, since both sides had differences with the West on political, religious and economic issues. Support for the right of self-determination was not strong enough to attach the outsiders emotionally to the cause.
For ordinary Afghans the situation was clear. They knew the people on each side. The majority of Afghans continued to support the resistance against the communists, despite the shortcomings of the resistance. Hezb's involvement with one of the communist factions has blurred the line separating the two groups..