AFGHANews Vol 5, No 5, March 1, 1989, page 7
Human
Soviets ask for arms embargo after arming Kabul regime
violations
Some 5.5 million refugees who lied the war in Afghanistan are the country's "most fundamental human rights problem", according to the latest report by a UN appointed investigator, issued recently.
It also cited what it called "reliable reports" of continued human rights violations by Afghan authorities.
The report said that due to "the seriousness of the suffering" of the Afghan people, "the situation remains a matter of deep concern".
Casualties from fighting between government forces and Mujahideen have >een rising over the past two months after a temporary decline, the report said. On February 15, the Soviet Union completed the withdrawal of Red Army troops that were backing the government.
The report also said hospitals in Pakistan and Afghanistan reported a drastic rise in victims of anti-personnel mines in December and January.
Civilians, including children, were the main victims in the resurgence of fighting immediately before the completion of the Soviet withdrawal, the repent said.
In his updated report, the Special UN Envoy on Human Rights in Afghanistan said new information gathered during his latest visit to the area indicated Soviet troops laid new land mines during their withdrawal.
Austrian Law Professor Felix Ermacora prepared the update for the current annual session of the UN Human Rights Commission.
After presenting his last report to the General Assembly, he visited Pakistan and Afghanistan from Jan. 27 to Feb. 5 to gather new data.
Mr. Ermacora appealed to all sides in the Afghan conflict to respect minimum human rights standards and international humanitarian law on conduct during civil strife.
He said reliable reports suggest Afghan police and secret agents still use torture and mistreatment during interrogations.
More Afghan refugees have reportedly streamed into neighboring Pakistan in the past few months to escape bombing in several Afghan provinces, the report said. Some three million Afghan refugees are in Pakistan, with most of the rest in Iran.
Soviet Union intensified diplomatic efforts in support of the Kabul regime immediately after the completion of the Soviet troop withdrawal.
Yuri Vorontsov,, Soviet Ambassador to Kabul and Deputy Foreign Minister, visited India to talk with Indian officials about the postwithdrawal situation in Afghanistan.
He met Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandi and the Foreign Minister.
At the end of his visit he spoke at a press conference.He criticized the US policy on Afghanistan and claimed that some Mujahideen groups had established contacts with Najibulla's regime but refused to identify the groups.
The Mujahideen believe that the allegation was designed to create division among the Mujahideen.Since the regime is in a very bad position, no Mujahideen group of significant influence will be interested in such contacts.
Earlier, Vorontsov had visited Iran to discuss the Afghan situation with Iranian Leaders.
Soviet leader Mecheal Gorbachev sent a letter to President George Bush regarding the situation in Afghanistan.
A US spokesman said that Gorbachev’s message was not different from his public statements.
The Soviet Union had proposed to the UN in November last year a three-point plan which asked for a ceasefire, arms embargo to both sides in the con-
flict and the establishment of a broad-based government in Kabul.
The proposal for an arms embargo was rejected by the US because the Soviets have left behind great quantities of arms and ammunition and have given new weapon systems to the Najib's regime.
The Soviet Union also has asked the chairman of the Security Council to consult with the members of that body about the three-point proposal.
The Council president, Jai Prataj Rona of Nepal informed the Soviet Ambassador to the UN that no consensus was found among the members of the Security Council on the proposal.
A Soviet spokesman in Moscow said that his government has sent messages to West European countries, the Arab league and Organization of Islamic Conference, seeking their help for what he called ending bloodshed in Afghanistan.
The Mujahideen have rejected the Soviet proposal and think that it is designed to protect the regime.
The Kabul regime has asked the UN to set up permanent posts along the Pak-Afghan border to monitor the implementation of the Geneva Accords. The UN Secretary-General is studying the proposal. There are 50 UN personnel stationed in Kabul and Islamabad who monitor the implementation of the Geneva Accords.

Congratulates-' Prof.Rabbani, Com.Masood
‘ \	• !. ’ ’	' - • ::'v::	■	:..V	'	'
Dr. Zygrount Szkopiak, the Foreign Minister of the f Poli|h	in	London,	has	sent	two
Rabfeani and commander
folldl^dwith great admiradon tfc^strtiggie^ against Soviet ig^S!Sor^:in; the past 1G years.	'	s ^
'hawfiaid'o®the Minister said. \
$;||,,B^;;said tfcif after the retreat of tH8||ect Arm^ freeing;: Afghanistan from the Communist regime is only a matter of
;;i|; ,=' % 4f • N "
Dir- Si&di#;hias- wished a quic&econdmlO: recovery: •