AFGHANews Vol6, No 23, December 1,1990, page 9
lished posts on all the strategic points overlooking the village they control. They force villagers to take arm and fight against the Mujahideen. In most cases they have turned the villages into fortresses by digging trenches and creating mine fields around them.
Self-sufficiency
Masood talked at length about economic self-sufficiency. Although this was not a new idea , he now emphasized it. Because of a decrease in outside assistance, especially after the Soviet troop withdrawal, steps to make SC economically self-sufficient have been given priority.
The construction of new roads and repair of existing ones, exercising control over existing mineral resources, improvement of the internal trade and taxation system and the imposition of austerity measures to reduce expenditures were some of the steps taken towards achieving self-sufficiency. Masood wanted to open the first Mujahideen bank.
Masood said he was keen to increase farm production by digging new irrigation channels, improving existing channels and providing seed and fertilizer to the farmers. He hoped that relief organizations would support his plans for reconstruction and increasing farm production.
Masood seemed disappointed by the UN's performance on reconstruction. Two years ago, a UN team visited Masood and discussed with him ways of helping people, but nothing was done. Masood did not hide his displeasure with Operation Salaam. He said UN assistance was used in such a way that it benefited the Kabul regime. He said Panjshir was the most devastated region in Afghanistan, but the UN had done nothing to help its reconstruction. Most of the Mujahideen have refused on political grounds to accept UN assistance which passes through regime territory. The Mujahideen were worried about the UN decision to transfer the UNDP from Peshawar to the cities controlled by the Kabul regime at beginning of next year.
The SC has opened many new school recently. The head of the SC Education Committee, Ustaz Shair Jan, said that his organization was running more than 400 schools in which 40,000 students studied. Most of schools are for boys but there are some primary schools for girls too.
The SC has a well-organized Health Committee which runs many hospitals and clinics in several provinces. It controls the flow of assistance to the hospital and clinics.
Taliqan hospital was well-organized. Masood said Doctor Sahar, the head of the SC Health Committee, has been very successful in his work. The Health Committee published a monthly bulletin, Neda-i-Tabib. It wanted to expand its work in the field of
preventive medicine.
The 'SC fortnightly', the official organ of SC, had undergone positive changes. Its language was simpler and it was published more regularly. SC has obtained Apple Macintosh computers to publish its paper. Two young Afghans who are experts in using computers have volunteered to go inside and help. Masood wanted Afghan writers to come and help his cultural program.
When I was in Farkhar, an ICRC delegation visited the area. The team met with Masood and I was asked to act as an interpreter. The team's requests to travel back to Peshawar through Kabul and bring medical supplies from Kabul to Taliqan were rejected.
Masood told the team that talks on Soviet prisoners of war could not start because of the hostile policy of the USSR towards the Mujahideen. ICRC was allowed to open an office in Taliqan and meet with the prisoners of war. The ICRC delegation told Masood that it had brought letters from prisoners in Kabul to their families.
Masood believed that the Kabul regime was not as strong as outsiders thought. There are divisions inside the regime, it lacks sufficient experts and is totally dependant on die Soviet Union for military and economic assistance. He said the presort stalemate was not because of the regime’s strength but due to the Mujahideen’s failure to make proper use of their forces. He believed that if the Mujahideen organized themselves better and forged unity among themselves, the Najibullah regime could not stand in their way. He said since the Kabul regime did not have roots among die people, it could not survive for long.
Answering a question about a political solution, he said there was no possibility of compromise with the Kabul regime. He said there was no reason why die Mujahideen should compromise because they had not made use of their power so far and if they did, the regime would be defeat ed. He said that besides flexibility regarding an honorable political solution, it was important that the Mujahideen be strong and well-prepared. Masood believes that Najib and die PDPA should be disqualified from elections and should be barred from playing any political role in the future.
When he was asked what was, in his view, the best military approach to win the war, he advised the Mujahideen to act care fully and warned them against gambling Jehad achievements in risky operations Attacks against the enemy should start against weak points and then the Mujahideen gradually should move toward stronger targets, he said. He said the Mujahideen should attack only those targets which they are sure to capture. "We should not let our enemy benefit from our political and military mistakes," he said.
Thatcher supported Afghans' struggle
Mrs. Margaret Thatcher has resigned from the office of Prime Minister of the United Kingdom after 11 years in power.
She opposed Soviet invasion of Afghanistan vigorously and supported Afghans' straggle to regain their freedom. She also played a key role in persuading other West European leaders to oppose the Soviet invasion strongly. When she visited Pakistan in the early 1980s, she visited refugee camps and met with some Mujahideen leaders. She received many Afghans in London to display her commitment in support of their straggle. Her government encouraged and supported relief efforts to alleviate the suffering of Afghan people both inside and outside Afghanistan.
Unlike some other European countries, she refused to reopen the British Embassy in Kabul which was closed in early 1988 on security grounds. She opposed any move which made the Mujahideen look weak. Because of her policies she was admired by Afghans. Afghan Mujahideen hope that the new government will continue to support the Afghan struggle for the right to self-determination in the same way that Margaret Thatcher did.
Editorial
From Page (4)
If those who have become worried about the agreement between Hezb and Jami'at review their position, they will find that their fear is not well-founded. They must be happy to see two Mujahideen groups live in peace. Jami'at will never go along a path that undermines its friendship with all the Mujahideen groups and harms the uni ty of the people of Afghanistan.
It is wise to support the commanders' effort to unify their ranks and coordinate their activities and also to keep the door open for an honorable political solution in which PDPA is not involved.
Book review
From Page (4)
the first time the ruthless Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. He "talked rationally, at times even with humor, inviting sympathy and understanding. He, didn't seem like a fanatic. Only something slightly reptilian about his eyes, and the soft, honeyed voice with its slightly hypnotic edge kept me on guard. I sensed enormous energy reined in by absolute self-control."
Afghan nationalism has taken extreme forms during the traumatic years since communism came to power in Kabul. The rise of Pakistan's most favoured leader Hekmatyar is, in Amey's assessment, symptomatic of a genera process. He "represents a significant new trend in Afghan society", one which cannot be ignored except at the peril of gravely misunderstanding the internal dynamics of this power struggle, too often seen simply as a superpower contest
Either of the likely prospects, a stronger central government under the ruling PDPA, or a disintegrated Afghanistan ruled by warlords, is full of more potential problems. Amey believes any peace initiatives seen to be orgininating through foreign involvement are automatically doomed to fail ure. He gives many details of the alarming degree of foreign manipula tion and interference in this war. Few would disagree with Amey's plea that foreign interference should cease, and the Afghans at last be left alone, to play out their national destiny accord ing to their own rules. But peace still looks a long way off.
Anthony Hyman