AFGHANews Vol 6, No 24, December 15,1990, page ®
The situation in Afghanistan in 1990
Mohammad Es'haq fa
The formation of die Council of Commanders (COC) was the most significant development of the Jehad in 1990. Commanders belonging to different parties, coming from different parts of Afghanistan got together to coordinate their .military activities and improve the law and order situation in their respective areas.
The events of 1989 convinced the Mujahideen field commanders that if they did not get their acts together, the situation will deteriorate and there was even a risk of loosing the achievements of Jehad.
The first meeting, attended by 37 commanders, was held in Jawar, Jalaluddin Haqqani's Base in Paktia Province, on May 7, 1990. The second meeting was also held in Jawar on June 25 in which more than 200 senior and junior commanders participated. The commanders' council gained a major victory when Masood attended one of their extra-ordinary meetings on the Badakhshan border. In this four-day meeting which began on October 6, most of the effective field commanders either took part themselves or sent their representatives.
The Commanders agreed on a military and political strategy, the main points of which are:
To launch coordinated attacks against die enemey's weak points and gradually increase the level of fighting.
•To create administrative units in the liberated areas for the purpose of imporv-ing the law and order situation and the provision of security for transportation lines.
• To Establish a coordinating office m Peshawar headed by Commander Haqqani.
To involve all Mujahideen in major operations of strategic importance, like an attack on Kabul.
As a result of this development the operation on Kabul, planned by Hikmatyar, was postponed.
The commanders council was veiy careful not to fall in competition with the AIG or individual political parties. At the moment the Council has limited its activities to issues of a military nature and related political activities confined inside Afghanistan. The Major political decisions are left to the political leaders to decide. Although no strong reaction has been witnessed from the resistance parties against the COC, some political leaders seem worried about the political ambitions of the commanders and the effect of their work on their own political influence. The council will enter its crucial stage when it has achieved some military victories. When
Toorghar post overlooking the city. Many transport planes bringing supplies and men to Khost were shot down. Fighting around Kandahar, Herat, Jalalabad, Mazar, Takhar and the rest of the country continued. The Salang highway, the lifeline of die regime transportation, was cut many times by the Mujahideen. The Kabul-Kandahr road remained closed The Kabul-Jalalabad road was cut now and then. The Kabul-Gardiz road remained closed except for a few days when a regime resupply convoy reached Gardiz. The Herat-Kandahar road remained generally closed but the Kabul regime could bring some well-protected supply convoys from die Soviet Union to Herat, Shindand, Farah and Kandahar by bypassing some dangerous sections of die road. The Mujahideen attacked these convoys inflicting heavy losses on them.
Concern for the life of civilians limited Mujahideen attacks against regime targets within Kabul and other cities.
Two incidents in Herat improved the position of die Mujahideen in that strategic
Sovince. In the first incident in Pushtoon irghon, Khaliqyar, die then governor of Herat and present Prime Minister of regime, was injured and many ranking regime officers were killed when the Mujahideen attacked die public meeting they attended. Khaliqyar had been very successful in turning many Mujahideen groups into regime militias. His removal from Herat slowed down the process. In the second incident, Sayyed Ahmad, the head of the Herat militia forces was killed on October 12. His death prevented the growth of militia forces in Herat and the Mujahideen have started to gain some victories against militias in die province.
Due to the political and military problems which they were facing die Mujahideen failed to launch a strategic offensive to threaten seriously the Kabul regime. Lack of a single high command, difficulties in moving from guerilla war to regular war, shortages of weapons and supplies, shortages of food and other needs were some of the problems. The main problem was lack of unity among the Mujahideen which took its root in die political differences and rivalries between the Resistance parties.
Shortages of arms and ammunition had a limiting effect on the scale and duration of Mujahideen operations. Since supplies did not reach all over the country, the level of fighting was not high enough to force the Kabul regime jo disperse its forces making its defense in the cities vulnerable. The Mujahideen in Khost made use of captured tanks in a mobile form. This was a good de-
f **	vetopment	because	in	iny	major filling in
eration between different fronts, surmort /.______________  j___1 »n _________	*_°__
eration between different fronts, support for Council's program will increase.
The most eye-catching development of the year on the military front was the fall of Tereen Koot, the provincial capital of Oruzgan. Mujahideen from neighboring Kandahar Province also took part in attack against Tereen Koot, a positive development for the Mujahideen who usually fight in their own areas.
The Mujahideen also launched attacks to capture Qala-i-Naw and Qalat, the provincial capitals of Badghis and Zabul Provinces, They succeeded in capturing many out posts but failed to win a total victory due to severe aerial bombing, reinforcement by the enemy through air and the absence simultaneous attacks in other parts of Afghanistan. The Kabul regime used airborne troops for the first time in many years to increase the defense of its garrison in Qalat.
Fighting around Khost continued. The Kabul regime lost control of the strategic
the future armored units will play an impor tant role. Several commanders have captured tanks and there is a possibility of capturing and buying more of them. In the past the Mujahideen made use of tanks as artillery.
The formation of a regular army is necessary to deal with large enemy targets in the final stage of war. Masood was the first commander to feel the need for this. He founded his army which incrased in size this year. During the commanders meeting it was felt that most of the commanders now take this idea more seriously and have even started to re-organize their forces. Evolution of a new strategy by the Afghans themselves was the most important development with far-reaching military and political results.
The Mujahideen still enjoy control over vast areas of strategic importance, they have enough volunteered to fight and despite internal problems arid lack of progress in the battlefield their cause is still popular.
The Kabul regime still suffers from its chronic weaknesses of internal divisions, shortages of manpower, vulnerable supply lines and total dependence on Soviet assistance.
Internal divisions within die regime exploded in die form of die Tanai coup in March. This was followed by other attempts. The coup pre-occupied Najib with purges of pro-Tanai officers from the government and armed forces. Hundreds were arrested or transferred to less sensitive jobs. The failure of die Tanai coup did not strengthen die position of Najib. It exacerbated tension between the two factions of die PDPA— Khalq and Percham. Other groupings of ethnic, linguistic and regional nature also continued to plague die ruling party making it less efficient in the military field. The events have forced Najib to rely more and more on KHAD and certain militia groups.
KHAD forms the backbone of die regime's security system. In some areas, KHAD has been able to spread the regime's influence through bribing some Mujahideen groups and exploiting rivalries between diem.
Militia forces are being used extensively to defend Kabul and provide security for roads. There are dozens of such groups the most famous of them are: Rashid Dostom from North; Kayan militias belonging to Ismailai minority sect; Esmat Muslim from Kandahar and Sayyed Ahmad from Herat They, not only operate in their own areas but, fight wherever the regime needs them.
The Sayyed Kayan militias has grown into a united force providing protection for die Salang Highway north of the Hindukush. This faction enjoys good relations with die Soviets because some of their forces are active close to the Soviet border. The Ismailia militias have been die main recipients of Sadruddin Agha Khans' program of die UN humanitarian aid for Afghans.
The Kabul regime suffers from shortages of soldiers. If the Mujahideen launch simultaneous coordinated attacks in many areas, the regime will not have enough men to defend itself. The Regime's total reliance on die Soviet Union's aid is a serious shortcoming . War is expensive and fight ing a war with mercenaries receiving subsidized food and high salaries is extremely expensive. The expenses of die regime's war machine are paid by die Soviet Union which itself is racing an acute economic and political (rises. Although Gorbachev has been very generous to die regime, he will find it difficult, to maintain this level of assistance for a long time. The stoppage of the Soviet assistance to Kabul is the main source of worry for Naiib.
The Kabul regime while it continued to follow a defensive military strategy, launched some offensive attacks against die Mujahideen in Paghman and Logar, West and South of Kabul, with some degree of success. In these attacks die regime heavily relied on the use of loyal militia units, die air force and heavy rockets.
The Kabul regime continued to use SCUD missiles and the air force to defend the areas it controlled.
The events of the year exposed the po litical weaknesses of the Mujahideen. The Afghan Interim Government (AIG) failed to broaden its base and turn itself into a credible organization. Talks with the Shia parties and imageries living in the West did not succeed in bringing diem into die fold of die AIG. Due to internal problems, the AIG had no significant activities on the international level, leaving the political arena empty for the Kabul regime. In die face of die regime's political onslaught and the