AFGHANews Vol7, No 15, August 1,1991, page ©
works
Those fighting a guerrilla war are often tempted to launch massive attacks at the last stages of the war. This temptation, sometime, leads to them to commit fatal mistakes. Since war is fought to be won, the freedom fighters should avoid untimely and hasty steps at the last phase of their struggle.
The Afghan Mujahideen entered such a phase of their struggle when the Soviet troops withdrew. A great number of Mujahideen, encouraged by their outside supporters, wanted to finish the Kabul regime in a short period of time by launching massive attacks against the main enemy centers.
There were, however, some Mujahideen who favored gradual escalation of war so that they could prepare their military and political structures for accepting new and greater responsibilities.
Developments in the battlefields showed that the Mujahideen were not ready for massive operations against the Kabul regime. Attacks on some cities did not succeed. The failure of these attacks helped the Kabul regime to gain self-confidence.
As the time passed, stalemate prevailed the battlefields. The Mujahideen commanders were looking for a way out of this situation. In the historical meeting of the Council of Commanders in Shah Salim at the end of 1990, they decided on a new military strategy which envisaged gradual escalation of war. This strategy was necessary because the Mujahideen faced shortages of supplies, did not have political unity and their military organizations were not fully developed.
The new strategy advised mobilization of local forces and attack on weaker targets before launching massive attacks against the major enemy targets. By successful implementation of this strategy the Mujahideen hoped to capture arms and ammunition from the enemy, secure their internal and external communication lines and prepare for launching massive military and operations.
This strategy proved to be useful. The Mujahideen captured Khost, Khwaja Ghar, Zebak and Eshkashim; successfully defended Khanabad, Zindajan and Maidan and put Salang highway under increased pressure. Within' a few months, the Mujahideen captured enough tanks, armored cars and heavy artillery that they are in position to form armored units. Formation of such units will enable the Mujahideen to score more victories.
The new victories have returned to the Mujahideen the self-confidence they had lost due to failures immediately after the Soviet troops withdrawal. These victories have destroyed the self-confidence of the regime. These initial victories have become possible due to the cooperation between the Mujahideen at the local levels. For major attacks, the Mujahideen have to coordinate their activities at the national level. If the enemy is facing the Mujahideen at several fronts simultaneously, it cannot defend itself effectively due to shortages of manpower.
The remaining part of the current year is very important for the Mujahideen. It is hoped that die Mujahideen commanders, party leaders and ordinary Mujahideen dp everything possible to win more victories before the winter starts.
The Mujahideen's successes in the battlefields will have a positive affect on the political process directed at finding peaceful solution to the problem of Afghanistan. The Mujahideen victories will encourage their supporters to continue their help to the resistance. They also pass a strong message to Gorbachev that he cannot impose his communist friends on Afghans no matter how much more weapons, ammunition and money he sends to them. This might force Gorbachev to revise his stand on the Afghan issue.
The new strategy of the Mujahideen does not reject political process for finding a solution to the issue. On the contrary, it provides better opportunities for peace by clearing the misconception about the abilities of the regime and "inabilities" of, the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen victories will also correct the thinking of sorr(e of the UN officials who wrongly think that Najib is indispensable for achievement of peace in the Afghanistan. ___________________________________
Aid bodies attacked in Zabul
Attacks on relief organizations and kidnap of aid workers in southwest Afghanistan has caused suspension of relief works in that area.
The offices of some international relief organizations working in Zabul province was attacked on July 4 by a commander affiliated to Prof. Sayyaf. These organizations were involved in demining, agriculture, irrigation, veterinary and food distribution projects.
He confiscated the properties of the relief organizations and made some of their workers (including one French man) prisoners. Later he released the prisoners.
The local commander's motives behind the action were not clear. Local issues might be involved but one cannot rule out the political motives behind such a move. Prof. Sayyaf is opposed to UN five-point plan and the relations between his party and USA has become tense over the Gulf issue.
Other Mujahideen parties have condemned die action against the aid organization and have demanded return of plundered goods.
In a separate incident, one Americans aid workers and his guide were kidnapped in Jaghory, Ghazni Province. No one has claimed the responsibility for the kidnapping. Efforts to locate and release the American aid worker have been started.
As a precautionary move, USAID has banned sending to Afghanistan of aid workers of those organizations which receive American funds. This restriction was earlier imposed on American nationals only.
Three aid workers were killed and two were seriously wounded when the pick-up van carrying them hit a landmine in Panjwaie District, Kandahar, on July 15. They were all Afghans and worked for VITA, a non-govemmental relief organization.
These three incidents in quick succession directed against the aid work ers give strength to the speculation that they might be part of organized campaign.
Some resistance parties are worried about these incidents because it will cause further reduction in relief as-
(I
To page (7)