   AFGHAN NEWS_______VOL II______HSL2SL____15/1Q/19S6______iASKIt
 martyred and twenty two others wounded. Thirteen civilians,were killed and 31 others wounded. The enemy bombed the area heavily as a result of which a large number of houses were destroyed.
                         THE SO-CALLED WITHDRAWAL A NEW DECIPTIVE MOVE
 The so-called withdrawal of some Red Army units from Afghanistan is no more than a deciptive move by the Soviet leaders. The realities of the situation in Afghanistan show that the Soviets do not have good intentions in the so-called withdrawal of some units from Afghanistan. They recently brought in new troops to meet their demand for more manpower.
 The publicized withdrawal does not change the military situation and does not have any value. The world should not be decieved by this propaganda campaign launched by the Soviet leaders. The choice of the time and ' propaganda they have made is revealing of their true intention to.decieve world opinion
 The world in the past has asked for a prompt and total withdrawal of troops and respect for the right for self-determination.The Soviet leaders are responding to the just demand of the world by a publicized withdrawal of a few units from the 150,000 troops they have in Afghanistan. They units they are withdrawing are of no use in the war.
 The key to peace is in the hand of the Soviets. Peace can only be achieved if ail the Soviet troops are withdrawn and that country stops all kinds of dirct and indirct interference in the affairs of Afghanistan, if the Soviets continue their long term policy of the Sovletization of Afghan society and impostlon of a puppet regime on the people of Afghanistan war will continue. This is what tne Soviets are doing . The real aim of the Soviet leaders is to win the war in Afghanistan with veryMittle political cost and they are using the so-called withdrawal of some units for this political end.
                                          AN AMAZING FATHER
 it was the fall of 1982. Panjshir valley was being bombed continously.We were at Friday prayers in the big mosque of the town when enemy jets passed over tne area. They started to bomp a town to Km. away. The bad news arrived in the evening. A commander of a mobile unit had been killed along with some others The whole town was made sad by the news.
 20 days later, again the same area was bombed. This time the target was a house in a village. Jets were diving and releasing 4 bombs of 250Kg. each time. Bombing continued for half an hour. This time an important figure of the resistance. Major Mohammad Ghous was martyred. He had been an airforce officer and was put in jail by the Daoud regime in i974. The charges against him were in connection with the Islamic movement. He was released later. In 1979 he-returned back from exile to organize the armed struggle against the communist, regime. Later he was given a job as the head