-------------__------------------------ AFGHANews Vol 8, No 15, August 1, 1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Bismillah Khan
Bismillah, ihc commander of Bagram Air Base, is a close associate of Commander Masood. He played a <ey role in the Mujahideen'^ capture of this strategic airfield, located about 4(1 kilometers north or Kabul.
In 1988, Bismillah was appointed Ihc deputy commander of the Central Zone of the Supervisory Council, covering Kapisa and Parwan provinces and the .area north of Kabul. He organized military operations along Lhc Salang Highway in addition to dealing with the political and logistical problems of the area.
Due to its location, the area was	      0_
crucial to controlling the regime's sup- was ^ m()sl >IIU.„IUCIU sludcm.in his	‘»sh,r	where	■*
ply lines. The Bagram area also wit- ctes- Hc Ji(] wc„ jn ^ re|i stayed in hiding lot two months. When ncssed hot rivalries between the io(JS subjccts bu[ his-performance in *c Mujahideen reached Bazarak. hc
Mujahideen parlies.	natural sciences was poor.	joined them.
In order to intensify his work in Bcsidcs allcndin(!	^	con.	Bismillah	ux)k	pan	in	the	opera-1
and around Kabul Masood relumed to Unucd lo sludy Is,ai^ic	on his tion of 1979 in Panjsh.r against the
Pajshcr from his base in Tahqan at the own He witncsscd communist activi- communis! regime. After two months, end of 1991. He ordered Bismillah lo Ues in his school when hc was a student lhe Mujahideen were defeated due to intensify his work among Ihc civilian in' Rukha Hc hegan working againsl- shortages of ammunition. Alter spend-populauon and the military units of Ulc communis, rcgimC when hc was a in« somc in ^ “PI** I™1 01 thc the.regime stauoned in the area.	s(udcnl Qf ^ Abu Hanjfa madrassa jn valley, hc and somc other men went to
Masood sent Bismillah to Bagram Ka^u|	Pakistan to spend thc winter and return
at the beginning of April. In addition to Bismillah took an active part in the with arms and ammunition the next eltminaung the militia units around the 1979 Chindawol uprising. Thc plan was
base, hc met with 400 officers from the ^ allack various slalions in ^ In Peshawar, Bismillah began to air force and the 40th Army Division capjuJ ,0 gjvc ^ my ] chanrt t0 work in the Jami at Information in Bagram. As a result of this wotk. the slage a coup. The operation was spon- C°mmittce and also helped the base and army division headquarters sorcd by Jamral and organized by Mujahideen Trom Panjshcr who visited fell to the Mujahideen on April 15 Mohammad Arif	Peshawar for work or medical treai-
wiihoul any major bloodshed.	Scvcral wcnt WK)ng Thc re. menu His success in this job was the
At about 2:00 am on April 15. gime gol wind of lhc operation the reason behind Masoods decision to Bismillah was in the base command njghi before Then Arif was killed choosc him as a member of his staff center when Najib, the head of the whcn ^	hc’	was	carrying	ex-	when he relumed to Panjshir in 1981.
Kabul regime, phoned to check up on plodcd m hour	the	shut	of	the	Bismillah	continued	these	dudes
the situation. He was told that the situ- attack	until 1983. He demonstrated great abili-
adon was under control.	The commander of the police sta- lV in dealin8 with P^P10 and extraoidi-
A few minutes later hc called pon that Bismillah was assigned lo cap- nary padence in enduring and ovcrcom-again, and once again was told the situ- ^re was cooperauve and sympathetic, “* difftculUes-ation was normal. When he called for and ^ pron,^ (o surrender after the " Bismillah's fiist independent billet . .^ .. . *“d_ li!ne- Genera! Mustafa, a	_0pewlj0B had slaned. The	people who	was given him at the end of 1984, when
trusted pilot, told him that the base haid	;	were ^ipposed to attack	this station	he was apP°intcd *he head of logistics
fallen to thc Mujahideen. Najib hung were mainly studcnts from Bismillah's for PanJsher At that time, much of the up and never called back. About twen-	xYiool	the Abu Hanifa Madrasa, a re-	valley was occupied by Soviet forces,
ty-four hours later, hc tried to escape	]igious	in j^i But	opera_	Mujahideen bases in thc lower valley
the country but failed.	don was called off due to the unfore- were facing severe shortages of food
Bismillah then organized the visit probicms.	and ammunition,
of Abdul Wakil, the foreign minister of	odlCr groupS g0ldlc mcssagc : Bismillah established his base in
the former regime , to Jabulseraj to	cling off	^ attaek cxccpl	those as- vSalang begin to provide food and
meet Masood. This meeting resulted in	signed	attack thc police	station in	ammunition to these bases. A$ a result
surrender of the regime forces to the	chindawol, a district in	Kabul’s Old	of his	work> *** levcl of fieht‘
Mujahideen.	City mainly inhabited	by- ethnic	mg increased in the vaUey. In the mean-
Bismillah was bom 32 years ago Hazaras. Fighting broke out and many hmc, he began to get involved in the in Shaikhan, a village in die town of veo?[e were	students	from the political and military works of Jami'at’s
Rukha, Panjsher. His father Gausuddin faculty 0f literature at Kabul University Mujahideen in .Kapisa and Parwan was a cobbler. He learned the basics of were involved in this attack. r provinces. Experience gathered during Islam in the mosque school of the yil- The communist regime unleashed
lage and enrolled in the Rukha High a 0f icn-or Hundred of local peo-	To	page	(8)
School at the age of seven, where he	-	r	®
pic, mainly Hazaras, were rounded up. Iran was blamed for inciting thc uprising. a baseless allegation. Within hours thc situation was back under thc government’s control.
By nightfall, more than 250 sLu-dcni-S from Abdu Hanifa school had been arrested. Most were not involved in the uprising. They were taken to Polygon, a lank training ground close to Pul i-('harkhi prison where government officials executed and buried political opponents. They were buried them aim- by bulldozers thc same niglu.
RismilNih wtiii nndp.rir round