ftFGHRH HEUS UOL.III, NO.M.T, 1/1/ 1987 PAGE €
                                                BASELESS CLAIM
 In reference to Najib's interview, published in the"Muslim" on date 26 feb., in which he tried to change the facts and create distrust among Mujahideen; Jamiat Islami Afghanistan clearifys its position as follows:
 The decision of the Alliance to reject the ceasefire and the socalled national reconciliation program proposed by the puppets was taken after detailed study of the problem. The decision was unanimous and supported by the refugees outside and the Mujahideen inside the country. There is no difference of opinion on this issue and the parties can not be divided as hardliners or moderates concerning this problem.
 The Islamic Alliance of the Mujahideen of Afghanistan, of which Jamiat is a member, totally rejects the ceasefire and the socalled reconciliation program of the regime as a * ploy to deceive world public opinion.
 Najib's comments about the position of the parties, is a KGB style attempt to create distrust among the Mujahideen and confuse the world about the realities of the' situation in Afghanistan.
                           THE SOVIETS' DEEDS DO NOT MATCH THEIR WORDS
 Talking to the Muslim, Sayed Sharafudding Pirzada. the Secretary General of the Organization of Islamic Conference, said that after two trips to Moscow he found the Soviets quite serious and sincere in the withdrawal of their troops from Afghanistan.
 Pirzada may have reached that conclusion but there are hard facts which challenge his views. The Soviets have occupied a country, they are still there and the war is continuing. So far there are no practical indications to show that they are preparing to leave Afghanistan.
 The Soviet leader's announcement of a token withdrawal of a few thousand troops proved to be fake and had no effect on the war in Afghanistan. Their puppets announced a ceasefire and National Reconciliation program which they ignored themselves and the war escalated afterwards. Several offensives were launched on the Mujahideen in the East, South and other parts and one major offensive continues in Qundoz at the moment. Refugee camps inside Pakistan are being bombed continously and hundereds of people have fell martyred or have suffered injuries.
 They sent their puppets to Geneva but demanded four years for pulling out their troops, but with a lot of difficulty reduced this to 18 months. While talking in Geneva they exploded a car bomb outside a school in Peshawar and raided two refugee camps inside Pakistan killing and injuring hundreds of people. These are all facts which speak for themselves.
 The Soviets have not came down from their previous position of choosing leaders for the future of Afghanistan. So far they insist that the so-called revolution of their puppets in Afghanistan is irreversible. They use the 90 called National Reconciliation and Ceasefire (which does not exist any more ) as an anti-guerrilla tactic to divide the resistance .win the war on the political front and confuse world public opinion.
 All the above reasons show that there is enough ground to doubt the seriousness of Soviets and their sincerity in finding a political solution acceptable to Afghans. It is strange when these words are pronounced by a responsible person like the Secretary General of the Organization of Islamic Conference who is fully aware of the situation in Afghanistan and has an idea of the depth of suffering of his muslim brothers and sisters in Afghanistan.
                                       The Soviets make use of any trip by religious figures international organizations and even sport for propropaganda purposes. Their invitation of Mr. Pirzada to Moscow is an attempt to improve their relations with the Muslim world which has suffered because