AFGHANews Vol 6, No 10, May 15,1990, page ©
News'.
iff ft
From The Battlefields
_______________________________
Herat Province
•On April 21, Mujahideen from Jami’at attacked an enemy convoy in Adraskan district, destroying 30 tanks and trucks and killing an unknown number of soldiers.
•On April 23, Mujahideen under the command of Ali Mohammad destroyed six armored cars and ten tanks in Delaram district Four armed soldiers defected to the Mujahideen.
•On April 22, one truck was blown up by a mine planted by the Mujahideen, killing and wounding five soldiers in Injel district
•On April 26, one tank was destroyed and 12 soldiers were killed when the Mujahideen fired rockets into the regime Army Corps in Herat.
•On April 28, a Mujahideen rpcket hit the provincial administrative offices of Herat, setting the building on fire.
•On April 28, the Mujahideen killed several enemy soldiers and set fire to an ammunition dump in Adraskan district when they fired rockets into the enemy position.
On the same date five weapons were Captured in Khwajd Malal area of Kushk District and several soldiers were killed by the Mujahideen.
•On April 29, two enemy soldiers were killed and two wounded in Kushk district by the Mujahideen.
Kabul Province
Fifty trucks were set on fire and 10 were destroyed when a time-bomb planted by Mujahideen exploded in a regime supply convoy near Pul-i-Charkhi on April 24.
The convoy, which was composed of 80 trucks, had brought artillery shells from Mazar to Kabul. Four soldiers and two officers of the convoy were killed. A nearby building was set on fire.
According to Hindukush News Agency, sympathizers of the Supervisory Council planted the time-
v
bomb at 8:15 in the evening. It exploded at 10:20p.m.
A BBC correspondent reported a huge explosion 15 kilometers east of Kabul city, but regime officers told him that explosions in the convoy resulted from soldiers firing to celebrate Eid. Eid, however, began the day after die explosion.
Later a regime spokesman confirmed that the explosion involved trucks full of artillery shells. An eyewitness reported from Kabul that the convoy burned for four hours after the explosions, which rocked buildings in the city.
•Nineteen people were killed when rockets, allegedly fired by Mujahideen, hit Kabul on April 23.
Ghazni Province
From 23 March to 17 April, the Mujahideen from Jami’at killed eight regime officers, 38 soldiers and injured 32 soldiers in different operations in Ghazni Province.
They also destroyed one armored car and three jeeps, captured two posts and set on fire a logistics depot of the regime in Ghazni airport, south of the city.
Four Mujahideen were killed and seven were injured during this period.
Faryab Province
Thirty-five women and children were killed in Darzab district on April 15 when regime planes indiscriminately bombed different parts of the district, an eyewitness told MIDI A.
Paktia Province
The Mujahideen recently shot down two transport planes at Khost.
The first plane was hit when it tried to land at Khost airport on April 20. The second plane was shot down on May 2. The planes had brought supplies to the besieged city.
Jalaluddin Haqqani has said the Kabul regime fires three to four SCUD missile each day at the Mujahideen on the Khost front.
Casualty figures disputed in USSR
The total of 13,833 Soviet fatalities in Afghanistan reported from Pravda in the last issue of CACC (8/ 5,pp. 14-15) has subsequently been questioned in a number of Soviet publications, notably the radical weekly Argumenty i Fakty and (earlier) the Estonian Komsomol newspaper Noorte Hall. They estimate the number of Soviet deaths to be in the region of forty of fifty thousand, more in line with Western estimates.
[Central Asia and Caucasus Chronicle Vol. 8 No. 6]
ICRC's ceas-fires
From page (1)
After the Soviet troop withdrawal, ICRC intensified its activities to collect information about missing Soviet soldiers, without paying equal attention to missing Afghans.
The main task of ICRC at present seems to be sending teams inside Afghanistan to cross from regime-controlled zone . to the Mujahideen-controlled areas and vice versa, similar to a program followed by Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan's "Operation Salam.”
Since these missions give the impression of compromise between the Kabul regime and the Mujahideen and end to the fighting, the Mujahideen parties oppose it. But, these programs have the blessings of the Kabul regime because they serve the political purposes of its ’national reconciliation program'.
AfghaNews has learned from sources inside Afghanistan that an ICRC team last summer tried to persuade a commander to agree to treatment of his wounded Mujahideen in the ICRC hospital in Kabul, by giving him false information that a commander from another rival Mujahideen party had accepted such an arrangement. Later it was learned that story was not true.
Since the Resistance does not act as a united4 body in dealing with the ICRC and UN agencies, they always find a way to deal with minor commanders. Those commanders believe in their "humanitarian tales" without realizing the negative political and psychological implications toward Jehad of such arrangements.