AFGHANews Vol 5, No 20, October 16,1989, page ©
From the diary of Jehad
Part (2)
Jehad brings prosperity and culture to Worsaj fiefdom
I expected to catch a jeep in Piew. When we arrived were told that a truck belonging to Jami'at had left in the morning. We continued our journey down the green but fruitless valley. The road was in good condition and I was happy to see new houses being built. These building are different from the traditional ones; they have wide windows, large rooms, toilets and bathrooms. In cold areas like Worsaj, traditional houses had small windows and the rooms were dark. As a result of the peoples' travels, their building style has changed.
We stayed the night with a Panjshiri family who lives as refugees in the upper Worsaj. We were given good food.
The next day we continued our downward journey with two other friends. They were Daud Mir, an Afghan refugee living in France, and Daud Zahir, one of Masood's communications officers, who also had just come from Pakistan. After six hours of walking we reached Khanaqa, the center of Worsaj sub-district. The shops were full of all sorts of goods. A Mujahid who had stayed in the area for many years told me that die activities of the Supervisory Council had brought a better economic life to the people of the area. People from other areas visit Worsaj for work or on their way to Pakistan. Trade has flourished. Job op--portunities have been created for horsemen in the valley, who transport goods and people back and forth.
Before the war Worsaj was a kind of fiefdom under control of an influential man called Eshan Nabi. He had close relations with the ex-king, Mohammad Zahir Shah. King Zahir had visited Worsaj once or twice as a guest of Eshan Nabi. The king liked hunting and this interest took him to the beautiful valleys of Farkhar and Worsaj.
Taraki killed Eshan Nabi. Nabi's son became a refugee in Germany. When the Supervisory Council decided to re-organize the area, the people of Worsaj stepped into a new phase in their lives.
In Worsaj I saw children going to school, and some young boys were even studying on the bank of the Worsaj River, which is famous for its trout
In the market we met some people
By: Mohammad Es'haq
from the Cultural Committee of the Supervisory Council. They invited us to stay the night with them. I was impressed by the building of the Cultural Committee and its flowers and greenlawns. The people in the committee were kind and hospitable.
After the evening prayer, the building was lit with electricity produced by a small generator. While the villagers in the rest of the valley were eating by the light of kerosene and diesel lamps, we were enjoying our meal in the electrified building of the Cultural Committee.
1 thought how pleasant it would be if the Mujahideen could provide electricity for the rest of the population. The people should see that the message of revolution is not just death and destruction. Fighting is necessary to eliminate the enemy, but the work does not end there. After dealing with the enemy, our friends should be supported by providing them with roads, hospitals, schools and electricity.
I remembered my conversation of two years ago with Commander Masood about these matters. He was thinking about building small power plants to give electricity to the villages. I contacted many organizations who were helping Afghans, but they thought electricity was a luxury and did not help.
During my stay at the Cultural Committee office I discussed with them issues relating to the publication of their fortnightly paper "Shoora". The article are composed by hand, and the paper is printed with a hand roller.
What they needed was a computer with an offset machine. They did not have the money to buy the computer, and offset machines cannot be transported on horses because they are too heavy.
Publishing the paper was a good step but it needed improvement The Mujahideen paper has to compete with the publications of the regime which have shown great improvement lately. The problem with the party-financed papers is that their journalists do not have much freedom to criticize the establishment
Another problem is the lack of
trained journalists. Young writers do not differentiate between news and commentary and mix them together without labeling them properly.
Language is another problem which Afghan journalism faces. There is a tendency among Afghan writers to use highly literary language which is not understood by the ordinary people. I told my colleagues in the Cultural Committee that they should use simple language in reporting in order to let a large number of people understand the contents of their paper. Most of Afghans are illiterate or have only primary education. Flowery language cannot easily be understood. My brothers in the Cultural Committee were polite and hospitable, but later I learned that they were not happy with my direct criticism of their paper.
There were three new people in the Cultural Committee. They had come from Kabul a few days before we arrived. They had been film actors working for Kabul regime television.
One of them was a capable film director who had directed three films made in Kabul.. The three had studied at art schools in the Soviet Union. Now they wanted to make films in support of the Afghan struggle for freedom.
After a day of rest in Worsaj, we continued our journey towards Farkhar. To my surprise most of the trucks on the road were very new and powerful. Most of them had belonged to the regime and were captured by the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen had sold them to the private owners who run transport in the valley. Road conditions had improved. There were a group of people working on the road.
After two hours of driving we reached the Training Center of the Mujahideen in Khost Deh. The headquarters of tfye Supervisory Council is situated one kilometer further downstream.
Two years ago no buildings existed in the area. The Center is used to train Mujahideen belonging to the army and to local groups of Jami'at. The training camp has been bombed once. Marks of shrapnel could be seen on the wall and a shard had flown through the window of Commander Masood's room, but he was not there at the time
Turn to page ( 5 )