AFGHANews Vol 8, No 20, October 15, 1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Mohammad Panah
Mohammad Panah was born in Safed Cheer village, in the upper part of the Panjshir Valley, 33 years ago. His father, Mohammad Amir, was a farmer. Panah	was sent to
Madrasa to become a religious scholar. At the age of 18, he left his studies and began to work on his family's farm.
In 1978, he was drafted into the army and sent to Herat. The army ' rebelled against the communist regime, but Panah was out of Herat at the time of the uprising. He left the army and went to Panjshir.
In the summer of 1979, Ahmad Shah Masood and his friends entered the upper part of the valley to begin Jehad against the communist regime. Panah and dozens of other young men from those villages pledged allegiance to Masood to fight against the communists. During the first days of the clashes between Mujahideen and regime troops, he disarmed a communist teacher of the local school and armed himself with PPSH machinegun.
He took part in the attack on subdistrict No. 1. and sub-district No. 2 of Panjshir. Masood led both attacks and Mustafa (Kifayatiillah) also played a key role in their capture.
After the fall of the sub-districts the government forces stationed in, Rukha retreated without much resistance and.the valley was liberated. The Mujahideen moved forward and fighting started along the Salang road and around Gulbahar Textile Mills, near the mouth of the valley.
Panah proved to be a good fighter. He and his brother were wounded in an attack near Gulbahar. Masood also was wounded and the Mujahideen had to retreat to the upper parts of the valley. Panah took refuge in his village. During the day, he would hide in the com fields but at night came back to his house.
Most of the Mujahideen had dispersed after the retreat and only a handful.had remained steadfast. Talks were held about the future course of action. Some suggested that the Mujahideen should go to Pakistan, spend the winter and return to the valley the following spring with arms and ammunition. Other Mujahideen and the people of Paryan opposed this proposal and told Masood that if he stayed, they would extend every assistance to him.
Masood decided to stay. Mujahideen began to reorganize and train themselves. They began launch-
ing small-scale attacks on enemy supply trucks. Within two months, the number of Mujahideen had increased to 60, and after two clashes the government was forced to retreat to Rukha again, leaving the two sub-districts once more under Mujahideen control. The Mujahideen moved to Parandeh valley where they continued training.
• <0 m




% -/
v. %
In the first of half of 1980, two offensives were 'launched against Panjshir. Panah took part in both battles. In the summer of that year Masood formed "mobile groups,” and Panah was appointed commander of one of them.
Towards the end of 1980, the Mujahideen planned to capture Rukha garrison, but the operation was called off after they lost two men. The Mujahideen laid siege to the garrison. When the commander leading the attack on the Rukha garrison, Abdul Wasai, was killed in action, Panah was sent to Rukha with his mobile unit. After two months of fighting, the Soviets launched a major offensive towards the end of the year. Panah knocked out an enemy armored vehicle, for the first time.
Some days later, he besieged an enemy unit, seizing 52 guns and capturing some soldiers and officers. He lost four of his best Mujahideen in this operation. After three weeks of fighting, the Soviets left die valley, taking with them the garrison in Rukha. The defeat coincided with,the first anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
Panah took part in an operation on an enemy convoy in Gulbahar in the spring of 1981. The convoy was set on fire and a lot of aims and ammunition were seized.
In the summer of the same year, the Soviets launched their forth offensive on Panjshir. The attack was re-
pulsed in Rukha by the Mujahideen under Panah.
In the spring of' 1982, the Soviets launched the fifth offensive against Panjshir, making extensive use of heli-bom troops. The Mujahideen under Panah shot down three helicopters and damaged three others in Rukha. A commando unit of the Red Army was annihilated.
Panah scored major victories in fighting against the mountaintop posts of the enemy. He launched a daring raid oh the operational headquarters of the Soviet forces in Rukha, inflicting heavy losses on them. These victories forced the Soviets to offer a ceasefire, which was agreed1 toby the Mujahideen.
In 1983, while the ceasefire was in effect in Panjshir, Panah was sent to Shomali to launch attacks against the Soviets. In an attack in Jangal Bagh, near Charikar, 15 enemy oil tankers were set on fire.
In the summer of the same year, Panah launched an attack on an enemy convoy in Salang, destroying 15 tanks and trucks. He seized 100 guns from the regime and Soviet forces in the course of several operations. One of these attacks was filmed by an English journalist, Andy Skrzypkowiak, and was shown on television worldwide.
During the same year, Panah escaped from the custody of the Soviet troops after he was arrested while traveling on the highway disguised as an ordinary farmer. Two of his friends also were arrested and later executed. Panah launched an attack on the enemy the next day, destroying one Soviet armored vehicle, killing ten Soviet soldiers and capturing one.
These activities made Panah a target of KHAD terrorist attacks. Both Masood and Panah were on the hit list of KHAD assassins equipped with special pistols and poison, but the plot was discovered and the agents were arrested.
Panah got married in 1983. His wife, who lived in Salang, was killed in an aerial bombardment in 1984/
When the one-year ceasefire in Panjshir was about to expire, both Soviets and the Mujahideen were preparing for confrontation. While the Panjshir Valley was being evacuated, Masood sent Panah, at the head of several hundred Mujahideen, to Salang to launch a preemptive attack on the enemy. He closed the Salang highway for
(I
To page (4)