AFGHANews Vol 8, No 24, December 15,1992, page ©
Book Review
THE BEAR TRAP: AFGHANISTAN'S	UNTOLD
STORY is the name of a book written by Brigadier Mohammad Yousuf, who served as the head of Afghanistan Desk of Pakistan's directorate of Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) for several years during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. This book is useful, but could mislead those who do not have enough background on the complicated Afghan issue.
The writer claims that he led the Afghans' war against the Soviet Union until close to their final victory, and regrets that after his untimely retirement, the Mujahideen's advance to victory slowed due to foreign conspiracies designed to prevent the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. He blames the US for creating hurdles on the way of Mujahideen's final march to victory.
Brigadier Yousuf overstates his own role and that of ISI in forcing the Soviets to withdraw from Afghanistan, and underestimates the role of Afghan field commanders and political leaders in achieving the historic victory. He calls the Mujahideen "my men," and boasts that it was "my job" to drive the Soviets out of Afghanistan.
This theme of self-praise is not only in conflict with the reality, but an insult to Afghans. No reasonable person can ignore the positive role that Pakistan played in giving shelter to the Afghan refugees and allowing the passage of arms and ammunition to the Mujahideen through its territory. But calling an officer of Pakistan's secret service "the leader of Jehad" is absurd.
The writer's description of the character of an average Afghan follows uncritically the simplistic stereotype British writers created during their abortive efforts to conquer Afghanistan. It is both imprecise and probably tailored to impress Western readers.
The writer's evaluation of the Mujahideen parties is interesting, but heavily biased. He has tried to present Culbuddin Hikmatyar and his party in the best possible light. Dividing the Mujahideen into fundamentalists and moderates, he portrays Hikmatyar as the leader of the first group. Describing Culbuddin as a man whose honesty was beyond doubt, and whose party was the most effective and organized among the Mujahideen, helps Yousuf justify the decision to give Hezb Islami the lion's share of foreign assistance.
As an example of Hikmatyar's "effectiveness" he describes the thoroughness of the communication links Hikmatyar allowed to be established between Hezb bal-tlefronts and ISI headquarters in Pakistan. Most major field commanders opposed this project, because it would have made them tools of foreign influence. Hikmatyar and his commanders, however, obediently
complied.
Yousuf wrongly claims that Hikmatyar helped Masood during the Soviets' seventh offensive on Panjshir in 1984. Hezb not only failed to cooperate with Masood, but also • as he had during past offensives -blocked Masood's communication lines while the fighting was in progress.
Despite his adulation and his post as one of Pakistan's top spymasters, Yousufs information about Hikmatyar's background appears sketchy. He describes Gulbuddin as a qualified engineer, graduated from the Kabul University, when in fact Hikmatyar only finished the first year of engineering couiscwork before leaving college to pursue his political activities.
Brigadier Yousuf claims that the Mujahideen were opposed to direct deals with foreign countries, especially the USA, in order to preserve their credibility. This was certainly true to an extent, but most parties felt that living in the shadow of a neighboring country's intelligence organization Was also discrediting.
Prof. Rabbam tried to break the mould, forged by ISI in older to limit die political activities of the Mujahideen, by asking foreign countries Co recognize the Afghan resistance as the sole representative of the Afghan people. He visited Washington in 1986 co try and achieve this. ISI. which wanted a monopoly on Afghan affairs, persuaded Hikmatyar to denounce the visit.
The author claims that distribution of arms, ammunition and funds to the Mujahideen parties was based on their military strength. There is plenty of evidence to show that this was not true. Hezb Islami received most of the assistance sent to the Mujahideen without producing any pear result on the battlefield On the other hand, effective commanders like Masood and Ismail Khan received very little assistance, despite their outstanding military performance in the war against the Soviets. They were penalized because they did not take orders from outsiders on how fight their war.
The unfair distribution of arms and ammunition had become so obvious that US Congressmen who sponsored bills authoriz-. ing aid to the Mujahideen began to complain publicly. The CIA continued to support ISI's Afghan policy, but Congress began- pressuring the American administration to make sure that aid reached the effective commanders. ISI, apparently with the backing of their deluded loyalists in the CIA, ignored these recommendations and followed the same policy until the fall of the communist regime.
Yousuf admits that weapon and funds were used as a means of influence. At the start of JehaL the parties were involved in the distribution of weapons. This helped Lite parties to exert some control over the commanders and to check the level of corruption. ISI's control over arms distributionin-
creased with the. passage of time until it eventually it alone had any say. As the parties' control decreased, the level of corruption and	zrms-dealing	among 'some
Mujahideen increased.
Brigadier Yousuf exaggerates the effectiveness of military training given to the Mujahideen by Pakistani instructors. The Mujahideen learned the use of new weapons from them, but it is completely untrue that the training programs run by ISI made the Mujahideen more organized or improved their tactics. In • those areas of Afghanistan where ISI was directly involved, in fact, no organization was introduced on the battlefields fill (he last days of Jehad. On the contrary, the areas away from the influence of ISI - like Herat and the northeast • became more organized with the passage of time.
The author complains (hat journalists who visited Afghanistan accorded undue importance to some commanders. This probably is an indirect reference to Commander Masood. Developments during 1992 proved the journalists' observations more accurate than ISI assessments set forth, in THE BEAR TRAP.
A
The author states that Pakistan tried to create unity among the Mujahideen. Efforts to'Unite the Mujahideen parties according to preconceived Pakistani plans were always in the works, but ISI never helped the Mujahideen to unite on a plan of their own design. Some of the problems that we have witnessed sinoe the fall of the communist regime were created in Pakistan.
Pakistan's strongman Gen. Zia Ul-Haq evidently had learned a lesson from the PLOY 1971 "Black September" experience in Jordan, during his tour as a military adviser there. While the chances of a Mujahideen victory seemed remote, Pakistan did not want an Afghan PLO to emerge on its soil.
On the plus side, THE BEAR TRAP reveals that SO percent of the assistance (caching the Mujahideen was given by Saudi Arabia. The media used to talk a lot about the US assistance to the Mujahideen without throwing enough light on the assistance the Saudis gave the Afghans.
Nevertheless, the book's most telling aspect is that it bemoans "the failure" of the Jehad, (bough it reached print several weeks after die Mujahideen entered Kabul.
One chapter of THE BEAR TRAP is entitled "KABUL MUST BURN." This refers to ISI director-general Abdurrahmar Akhtcr's vow to intensify fighting in Kabul to make life difficult for the Soviets. Thii never quite happened the way Akhter wanted during the Red Army occupation, not even during Najib’s reign.
Better late than never, though Akhter's protege Gulbuddin Hikmatyar finally fulfilled his patron's motto this year -months after the fall of the communist regime and the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.