J
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 24, December 15, 1990, page ©
J.I.A. wants economic aid for USSR linked to Afghan peace
Prof. Rabbani, Jami'at Islami leader, has hoped that the convening of the commanders meeting, the agreement between Hezb and Jami'at and the beginning of the election process for the formation of an Islamic council, would help in breaking the present stalemate in Afghanistan.
In a press conference organized by MIDIA on December 8, he said Najib's trip to Geneva and his landing in Mash'hed, Iran, were designed to create suspicion among the Mujahideen against each other.
Prof. Rabbani said sitting with Najib will not solve the Afghan issue and if anyone from the Mujahideen talks with the regime his loyalty to Jehad would be questioned.
He regretted the Iranians permission for the landing of Najib's aircraft in Mash'hed and asked all other Muslim countries not to allow such a thing to happen in the future. He said he was not full aware Of the reason why the Iranians let Najib land. He added that an attempt by any country to propose Najib as a side with which the Mujahideen negotiate will be opposed.
He said he did not think that Iran had adopted such a policy.
The Jami'at leader criticize the sending of food assistance and giving of economic aid to the Soviet Union by some Islamic countries before a change in the Soviet Afghan policy . He said the Mujahideen expected Saudi Arabia, which is a strong supporter of the Mujahideen to have used their newly established diplomatic ties with Moscow to persuade Gorbachev to change his hostile policy in Afghanistan.	/
The Jami'at leader said food shortages in some areas of Afghanistan are a serious threat to the population. He said low rainfall and locusts are the main cause of low farm products in Badakhshan, Jawzjan, Faryab and Bamyan provinces. He said UN assistance for the critical areas was discussed with the UN officials. The UN agreed to bring some food through the Soviet Union to Afghanistan. Only a little amount of food was distributed in Mazar, Badakhshan, Jawzjan and Faryab. The major portion of the assistance was given to the Kabul regime.
When his opinion was sought to the replacement of Prince Sadruddin by Benon Sevan as the UN coordinator, he said that he was not pleased with the presence of Sadruddin and he did not regret his departure. About Benon Sevan's appointment, he said it
is too early to judge.
He regretted the decision of UNHCR to reduce 20% of its assistance to the Afghan refugees in 1991. He said the UN support for the refugees had not been enough in the past and its reduction will cause tremendous problems for them. He hoped that the reduction was not a UN plan to force Afghans to accept a solution they do not want.
About the proposed trip of a Mujahideen delegation to Moscow Prof. Rabbani said Jami'at supported sending a delegation because it was extended by an opponent of Gorbachev. The Mujahideen can use this opportunity to tell the Soviet people about the crimes of their government in Afghanistan. This will increase domestic pressure on Gorbachev to abandon following Brezhnev's policy in Afghanistan.
When he was asked what was die practical result of agreement between Hezb and Jami'at while Hezb launched an attack on Jami'at in Shar-i-Buzurg, Badakhshan and a Hezbi commander has cut the water of 200 villages in Balkh, he said he hope Hezb would take quick action to correct the situation. He said despite these incidents he was committed to the agreement and will raise the question with Hezb through a committee established for this purpose.
Prof. Rabbani said the he was not opposed to the return of Afghan refugees but was of the opinion that the condition for their safe return were not ripe. He said millions of mines were still in Afghanistan, fighting between Mujahideen and regime continues and villages and irrigation systems have been ruined by the war.
Por. Rabbani said Najib's new proposal had no new substance. It asks for power-sharing and recognition of the PDPA as a legal party, things repeated by Kabul many times.
When he was asked what constructive role the EEC can play to bring peace to Afghanistan, the Jami'at leader said: "We do not welcome the giving of the Nobel Peace Prize to Gorbachev, despite his involvement in the Afghan war and the sending assistance to the Soviet Union despite no change in their policy towards Afghanistan." He suggested that the friendly countries should continue their assistance to the refugees and support the Mujahideen struggle for exercising their right of self-determination.
Schools opened
The Supervisory Council (SC) has opened two madrasas (religious schools) in Rustaq and Shahr-i-Buzrurg districts.
Zaheeria Madrasa in Rustaq has 50 students who are taught by seven teachers. The Madrasa in Shahr-i-Buzurg has 30 students who are taught by three teachers
Mawlawi Sayyed Akbar Fanai, the chairman of the Council of Religious Scholars of the SC said that the expens es of the two schools which include bodes, feeding students and salary for teachers are bon by the SC. Madrasas of the SC are run by the Coucil of Religious Scholars.
Moscow gives new rockets to regime
Seventy five new missiles were deployed around the Defence Ministry of the Kabul regime on November 30, MEDIA reported. The rockets which have a range of 80 kilometers are more powerful than the SCUD and BM-27 missile. These rockets have been supplied to the Kabul regime by the Soviet Union very recently.
ftfeCp us puBCish ATgttWlews!
PCcost send your donations to the following account number:
ynHwD Account 9{p. 735-37 9{aM6 ‘Banl^Ltd.
‘TehkaC ‘Bata, Pesfarvar Pakistan