Vol 8, No 23
December 1,1992
Dostum visits j President determined
to convene Hal-o-Aqd
Saudi Arabia
General Dostum left Islamabad for Saudi Arabia at the head of a 59-member delegation on November 18 to perform Lmra.
Sayyed Mansoor Naderi, the spiritual leader of Ismailia community, was also included in the delegation.
In Saudi .Arabia, Dostum met with Prince Turki Al-Faisal, the head of intelligence of that country.
Although the visit is described as private^ Dostum attaches great importance to the visit considering it as a sign of good-well towards his National Islamic Movement.
It seems that Pakistan persuaded the Saudis to extend such an invitation to Dostum.
Dostum had earlier paid a secret visit to Pakistan where he discussed the political and military situation in the country with 1S1 officials. Gulbuddin Hikmatyar has revealed that Pakistani officials wanted to organize a reconcili-atory meeting 'between him and Dostum but that he rejected the offer.
Wanning of relations between Dostum and Pakistan serve the purposes of both Islamabad and the Uzbek warlord. Islamabad viewed Dostum’s alliance with Hczb-i-Wahdar. a Shia party close to Teheran, as sign of his close relation with Iran. By inviting him to Islamabad and arranging a holy trip for him to Mecca. Pakistani leaders wanted to bring him closer to themselves. Uzbekistan and Turkey, which have considerable influence on Dostum, have their own reasons to support such an approach.
Dostum, on the other hand, is trying to get material support and political recognition from abroad. Because of his past, he is facing the problem of legitimacy at home. By mustering support from outside, especially from the former supporters of the Mujahideen, he wants to influence the course of political events in Afghanistan.
While the . government seems determined to convene the Hal-o-Aqd Council, some Mujahideen leaders, who were earlier insisting on its timely convention, are now demanding its postponement.
The organizing committee of the Hal-o-Aqd Council accelerated hs work alter the extension of President Rabbani's office term for 45 days, in order to convene the meeting on time. Representatives of all parties are members of the organizing committee. The rules for electing members of the HAC were passed by the Leadership Council.
Teams to supervise elections were sent to the provinces. Each team was comprised of three members, coming from three different parties, and one judge of the supreme court The air force of the Islamic State airlifted the supervisory teams to different parts of the country.
The main task of the Hal-o-Aqd Council is to appoint a new head of state for a period of 18 months. Prof.
I Rabbani and Pir Gailani are the de-I clarcd candidates for the job.
While the work tor election of ihe I members was in progress, some leaders ! began to demand postponement of Hal-o-Aqd's meeting. Some of these leaders argued that winter created logistical problems for holding the meeting while others leveled accusations that the government tried to influence the outcome of the council by bringing in it its pwn supporters. This allegation was leveled initially by Gulbuddin Hikmatyar and I was later repeated by Mujaddidi, I Gailani. Ma2ari and supporters of [ Dosium.
The government has rejected the allegations as baseless and called it as sabotage by those who were afraid to face the people.
Meanwhile, General Dosium has begun to demand membership by him-
self or his representative in i Leadership Council. This dema might lead to confrontation betwt the government and Dostum becai the demand is vigorously opposed several Mujahideen parties. It is rel bly reported that Pir Gailani < General Dostum discussed the situat in Afghanistan during Dostum's sto) ver in Islamabad on his way to Sa Arabia
According to the rules of the el tion, each district with a population up to 30,000 will send two represer tives to the Hal-o-Aqd Council. 1 each 18,000 extra population one ad tional representative is given to t district. Each sub-district with a po larion of up io 15,000 elects one rep sentative . For each 18,000 extra po lauon one additional representative \ be chosen. The UN 1990 populat survey was accepted as a base for population of districts.
Here is the list of representaii that each province will send to the P o-Aqd Council:
Nuigarhar:	63.	Herat:
Kandahar: 51. Ghazni: 48, Paktia: Faryab: 41, Jawzjan: 40. Balkh: Badakhsnan: 37. Kunduz: 34, Takl 34, Helmand:	34,	Parwan:
Urozgan 30. Baghlan: 29, Farah: Maidan: 24, Kapisa: 24, Bamyan: Chore: 20, Zabul: 17, Badghis: Logar 17. Laghman: 23, Kunar: Samangan:19, Nimroz: 9, and the of Kabul: 50.
Five percent of the total will be lectcd by the president, and 15 perc by the Leadership Council. This enable scholars anu prominent refup living in exile to attend the Hal-o--mcctings. Invitation letters have ready beem sent to these people.
The UN and OIC were aske< send observers to the Hal-o-Aqd ] cccflings, but so far they have not gi a positive response.