Vol 6, No 18 &19	October	1,1990
Mujaddidi praises Shoora's gains
Q. What was the purpose of your rip to the North?
A. I wanted to visit the Mujahideen.
Q. What difference did you witness between the North and other fronts which you have visited?
A. The organization I saw in Shoora area has no match in other parts of Afghanistan. I Would like to see other fronts in Afghanistan copy the example of the Shoora. The Shoora has dope positive work for the people in different fields such as health, education, reconstruction, provision of security and justice, and the military. Shoora commanders cooperate with each other and 1 was impressed by their unity. There is no difference of view among them in either political or military issues. I support their work.
Q. In your discussions with Masood did you agree on any specific plan of action?
A. We talked about political and military issues. Thank God there was no difference of opinion between us. Lack of supplies is a problem for Masood. He has not received any ammunition since the Soviet troop withdrawal. I have defended him and told the relevant people to end the arms embargo imposed on him.
Q. What was Masood's opinion about your invitation by the president of the Russian Republic to Moscow?
A. Masood was in favor of the trip and considered the invitation a change of the Soviet policy. He was of the view that the invitation should be accepted in the interests of Jehad and promised to introduce his representative to the delegation which will visit Moscow.
Q. Did you discuss the role of Zahir Shah with Masood and what was his answer?
A. Zahir Khan's role came under discussion. The brothers of the Shoora are opposed to the leadership of Zahir Shah. They want a leadership which has taken part in Jehad.
President Mujaddidi visits northern Afghanistan
Prof. Mujaddidi also visited Farkhar hospital and talked to the doctors and patients about their problems.
On the way to Taliqan, Prof, Mujaddidi visited the place where some prominent Jami'at commanders were killed by Sayyed Jamal's band one year ago. He prayed for the souls of those martyred in the incident
Prof, Mujaddidi was greeted by thousands of people in the city of Taliqan. School children. Mujahideen, officials, of the province and delegates from many remote districts had come to visit Prof. Mujaddidi.
He addressed a huge gathering in the center of the city. Prof. Mujaddidi received many delegations from all walks of life. He visited the city hospital, an abandoned Soviet base, the vegetable oil factory, and a school.
He led Friday prayers in the cen tral mosque of the city and laid the foundation stone of a religious school Prof. Mujaddidi was impressed by the way the Mujahideen run die city.
The professor and his entourage enjoyed the hospitality of the people of Takhar, who did everything at their disposal to make the visit comfortable.
During informal discussions the professor was informed of the reconstruction, educational and health activities of the Council.
The trip provided a good opportunity for both sides to hear each other's opinions. It was clear that their views were close.
In addition to a group of Afghan journalists, two Western journalists accompanied the guests to cover the trip.
Najib praises Mujahideen's patience N
In a speech to party members in the armed forces, the head of the Kabul regime has criticized the attitude of some of his friends who have shown worry about the decrease of Soviet aid to the regime:
Praising the endurance of the Mujahideen, Najib said although they were bringing their supplies on donkeys, they were not tired
He admitted that the changes in eastern Europe and possible change in the Soviet policy towards Afghanistan has alarmed some of his colleagues. He assured his friendsthatinhis recent trip to Moscow he had been able to persuade the Soviets to maintain current assistance levels to Kabul, ^adding that these levels will be necessary for at least one mote year._ j
The AIG President Prof. Mujaddidi visited the North to talk with Ahmad Shah Masood about the current political and military situation in Afghanistan.
He entered Afghanistan through the Dora pass on September 12 and was received by the Mujahideen of Badakhshan in Top Khana border post
On the way to Takhar he was greeted in Eskazer and Anjuman by the religious scholars, elders and Mujahideen. Prof. Mujaddidi talked to them about the purpose of his trip to North.
In Anjuman a delegation of elders of Panjshir also came to greet the Professor. In this trip Mohammad Nadir Khurram, the Health Minister of AIG, and other ranking officers of the AIG and ANLF were accompanying Prof. Mujaddidi.
President Mujaddidi was greeted by Commander Masood and other officials of the Supervisory Council in Piew, the upper part of Worsaj. A motorcade took the guests to Khanaqa town where thousands of Mujahideen, school children and local people had gathered to greet them. Prof. Mujaddidi spoke to the gathering.
The formal talks between Prof. Mujaddidi and Commander Masood began at the Military School of the Shoora near Farkhar.
In the talks the two leaders discussed ways and means of promoting Jehad in the military and political fields. After two days of talks Prof. Mujaddidi visited Farkhar and spoke to a huge gathering in the central mosque of the city.