AFGHANews Vol 6, No 14, July 15, 1990, page ©
Commanders’ second meeting agrees to unify military efforts
In their second meeting, he Mujahideen commanders have decided to coordinate military operations against the Kabul regime and to solve )rohlems between, different Vlujahideen fronts through negotiations.
The meeting, in which about 300 commanders from different parts of Afghanistan participated, continued its deliberations from June 22 to 25 in a Mujahideen base in Khost District After thorough discussions the commanders decided to co-ordinate their military activities, solve problems between different Mujahideen fronts peacefully , improve the security situation in the liberated areas and along the transportation lines of the resistance and invite more commanders to participate in the coming meetings.
In order to implement the decisions of the meeting a 60-member committee has been formed . The committee will form sub-committees to deal with specific issues.
The organizers of the meeting say that they confine their work to military aspects of the Afghan issue. By not discussing the political issues, they want to give the impression that they are not in competition with the existing Mujahideen organizations- the political parties and die AIG.
Some Mujahideen political leaders tave given conditional support to the commanders but others are still hesitant to back the commanders’ efforts.
A spokesman of Hezb Islami Hikmatyar opposed the move saying it was leading to the formation of a new party.
Jami'at's leader has said he supported the commanders meeting if they confined their efforts to military issues
and refrain from indulging in politics.
Masood and Ismail Khan, the two famous Jami'at field commanders have not sent their representatives to the meeting but the organizers of the meeting are hopeful that they will support the commanders' efforts to bring unity among the Mujahideen.
The first meeting of commanders was held on May 7 to 9 in Paktia. Thirty-seven commanders participated in the first meeting.
The commanders meeting might face problems when all the commanders have decided to participate in it. Now every large and small commander has one vote. This method might not be acceptable to the powerful commanders. A solution must be worked in advance to avoid future difficulties.
The Kabul regime fired two SCUD missiles at the Mujahideen base where the commanders were meeting but they fell about 200 meters short of the base causing no casualties. When the first meeting of the commanders was convened, the Kabul regime welcoming the move said it was in line with its policy to bring peace to Afghanistan. But the commanders did not discuss making peace with the regime. On the contrary they discussed ways of coordinating the Mujahideen military action against the Najibullah regime.
Convening the commanders meeting is thought to be the initiative of the Afghans themselves. The Mujahideen field commanders are not happy about the military and political situation in the country. Holding the meetings is an attempt to improve the situation.
Hospital electrified
A small power plant has been built in Farkhar to provide electricity for the district hospital. The generator had been captured from die enemy in Taliqan. Engineers from the Reconstruction Committee of the Supervisory Council improvised a turbine to run the generator. Construction work took about two months and cost one million Afghani ( about $' 2,000 ) for construction work.
This electricity will be used to illuminate the building and run the medical machines. It was a pilot project, a SC source said. The Mujahideen will build more power plants in the future.
sI6\V!> do'ivn gees' return
UN officials in Kabul have said that even if the war ended now it would take several years before the refugees are re-settled, Reuter reported from Kabul. It also said the best way to resettle the refugees is a staged program.
It is believed that as long as an acceptable government has not come to power in Afghanistan the large-scale repatriation of the refugees will no take place.
Clearing mines and rebuilding the economy are other issues preventing the return of the refugees.
The UN deputy coordinator of Humanitarian Assistance to Afghanistan Zia Rizvi has asked for more funds for the UN demining program.
He said only 17 million dollars has been given by the donor countries for this program which is not enough. He said the UN has trained 10,000 Afghans in demining.
The UN demining program so far has had little success on the ground. Despite a lot of publicity the UN has defused very few mines in Afghanistan. Experts estimate the number of mines planted by the Soviets to be between 10 to 30 million.
The repatriation of the Afghan refugees will start from October, the Chief Commissioner of Afghan refugees has told reporters.
The UN High Commissioner for Refugees will soon start buying ration passes from the Afghan refugees who want to return home.
Some Mujahideen parties have opposed the plan and think that the return of the refugees before the fall of the regime is a risky process.
ICC teaches Afghans administrative skills
A 10-day management and administration course was organized by the Islamic Coordination Council (ICC) for Afghans belonging to the Mujahideen parties and Arabs working in relief organizations in Peshawar.
Fifty students attended the classes which continued from 16 to 26 June. ICC is an umbrella organization which coordinate the activities of the 17 Islamic relief organizations supporting Afghans.
0-CeCp us puBCish
JL TQ9&&&WS!
TCeast send your donations to the fotkmnng account number:
fEM&D Account Odp. 735-37 iHabiB BanlcLtd.
‘TtfxkaC 'Baba, Ptshaxoar ‘Pakistan