AFGHANews Vol7, No 22, November 15,1991, page ©
Jami'at leader warns against Jehad isolation
Professor Rabbani has urged the Mujahideen leaders to take active part in the political process for the settlement of the Afghan issue.
Speaking at a gathering of Afghan Mujahideen in Peshawar, prior to his departure to Moscow, he said that Jehad was waged so that Muslims would rule Afghanistan after its liberation. Failure to do so would usher in an era of disappointment like that which the people had experienced before the communist coup of 1978.
He said "Muslims were not ready to listen to us when we talked about the danger of communism to Afghanistan." He said he had written a booklet warning the Muslim world about the danger of a communist takeover in Kabul during the rule of President Daud. The book was distributed among the dignitaries of the Muslim world performing Hajj, but no one took interest in it.
Prof. Rabbani said 13 years of Jehad has changed the situation. The Mujahideen are close to victory. They now should take steps to insure their total victory. They should involve themselves in the political process without abandoning armed struggle.
The Jami'at leader said Jehad faced problems of a complex nature, both from within and without Afghanistan. He said Jehad had become vulnerable to the dangers posed.
Elaborating on the difficulties, he said a large number of those who now fight against the Mujahideen undo' the name of militias woe earlier Mujahideen who changed sides for one reason or the other. There are also some commanders in the ranks of the resistance who receive arms and funds from the enemy.
The Mujahideen, unfortunately, are not in a position to take proper action against them because they are supported by one party or the other. He said poverty and ignorance were two other dangerous things threatening Jehad. People have started to criticize the political parties very openly and they feel proud of doing so. This is not new, but the level has increased and this must be taken seriously.
Prof. Rabbani said Jehad is facing dangers from without too. Opposition to an Islamic government, in the name of fighting against fundamentalism, is not coming only from non-Islamic countries but from some Islamic countries as well.
He said Gorbachev and Yeltsin
might stop helping the Kabul regime, but the former communist leaders in Central Asia who claim to have become reformists might continue to support Najib. Under these circumstances, he said, one should not think that the fall of communism in the Soviet Union would result in the abandonment of the communist regime in Afghanistan.
Criticizing the attitude of those Mujahideen parties opposed to his visit to Moscow, Prof. Rabbani said if the resistance had no initiatives it would be isolated. He said "making declarations will not solve our problems."
Prof.Rabbani said he was going to Moscow to test the sincerity of the Soviet leaders who claim to want peace in Afghanistan. He reminded the Mujahideen leaders that they always said the Soviet Union was one side in the conflict and that they were ready far talks with Moscow. He said some of those opposed to the visit have even had private talks with Soviet delegations.
Pointing to the criticism of the visit by a group of refugees who call themselves the members of the Islamic Movement, he reminded them that the idea to hold direct talks with the Soviets was discussed in the meeting of prominent leaders of the world Islamic parties in Lahore during the Gulf crisis. This idea was not opposed by any of the Mujahideen leaders present then, he said. He said the Mujahideen had also expressed readiness for talks with the Soviets in the second round of tripartite talks in Tehran.
He said no one can oppose this move on religious grounds, and that the problem was a psychological one, but emotions are not sufficient to solve the problem of Afghanistan.
Zahir Shah is injured in Italy
From page (1)
Affected by the sympathetic reaction of some sections of the Afghan people, the king made a declaration from his hospital bed that he was still ready to play a role in brining peace to Afghanistan - telling his supporters that he was not demoralized by the attack.
Although the attack on the 77-year old Zahir Khan was a painful experience to him and his family, it provided a cause for his supporters to air their views. The incident also provided ammunition for the western media to attack fundamentalism.
Zahir Shah was ousted in 1973 by his cousin Prince Daud after 40 long years in power. He has lived since then in Italy. He remained inactive during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, After the withdrawal of Soviet troops, he realized that he could play a role in the future politics of Afghanistan. Disunity among the Mujahideen leaders and their inability to defeat the Kabul regime quickly has given the former king and his supporters some hope that he might return to power.
Among the Mujahideen leaders, Sayyed Ahmad Gailani supports the king's return openly. Prof. Mujaddidi and Nabi Mohammadi do not denounce him publicly. The rest, both Sunni and Shia leaders, oppose his return, for varying reasons. Hie Kabul regime has tried to woo the king but has not offered him a leadership role yet. Zahir Khan has not been speaking against the Mujahideen parties in public, but has openly opposed the Kabul regime as the product of the invasion.