fiFOHfttf NEWS VOL. Ml, HO.23,     1/12/1907,PAGE 4
                                                PERWAN PROVINCE
 23/JO/1987 In an operation Mujahideen surrounded enemy posts in Arghan Khil area of Bag ram District After the fighting vhich started at 530 pm and continued till 10:30 a m of the next day. Mujahideen were able to capture the posts and seize a large amount of staff from them Fourteen enemy soldiers carrying AK-47s were taken as prisoners and three others were killed. The posts vere situated about one Kilometer from the Bagram Airfield.
 25-1/1987 Mujahideen attacked Bagram 's District headquarters as a result of vhich 3 officials were killed Latter on, Russians bombed the area in retaliation but no detail of
 losses have been given in the report
                                                                                                                   I
                                               KANDAHAR PROVINCE
 13/11/1987: Six DRA soldiers vere killed and 3 others vere taken prisoners when the * Mujahideen commanded by Mullah Naqib attacked an enemy post in Bulbakan area
 situated about 10 kilometers south of Kandahar city
 14/11/1987. In another operation on Buibakan post vhich lasted for 8 hours, an enemy arms depot was set on fire as a result of Mujahideen shelling Five soldiers vere lulled also
 Three Mujahideen vere martyred in the operation
                                          WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE?
 Mawiavi Khalis, the Chairman of the Mujahideen Alliance met Mr. Reagan as the head of a five member delegation of the Mujahideen in the White House This vas the second such meeting with a high-ranking Mujahideen delegation. The first delegation vas led
 by prof. Rabbani in 1986
                   The reaction of some parties within the Alliance has been different towards the two
 meetings.
 Whan prof Rabbaai led the Alliance delegation in an official visit to the US, two parties, Jttehad of Prof Sayyaf and Hezb of Mr Hekmatyar denounced the visit. They argued that the visit discredited the Resistance which is an Islamic movement Press Conferences were held, mass meetings were convened, articles and even books were written to prove their point These parties even based their arguments on verses from the Holy Quran and gave it a pure religious colour
 As a result of these actions tension amongst the Resistance increased and a lot of energy and time were wasted and the Alliance even faced the danger of disintegration
 About the second trip they have kept quiet They have not denounced it in big meetings or small ones. They have not written anything against it so far.
 What is the difference?
 Is there any change in Mr. Reagan himself or the nature of his administration?
 What are the changes in the Resistance side which has made the situation different? The only change we see is the leadership of the delegation
 jami at has supported and will support these types of visits by the leaders of the Mujahideen and consider them as essential parts of our political struggle
 We also expect from our colleagues to base their judgments about events on long-term