AFGHANews Vol 6, No 9, May 1,1990, page ©
Changes in communist block began when Soviets failed in Afghanistan
On the occasion of Eid, Jami'at leader. Prof. Rabbani, has sent a message to the Afghan nation. In his message he has touched on major issues concerning the Islamic movement and the Mujahideen. We present here some of the more important points of his long message:
This year's Eid comes in the spring, the beginning of the Afghan year. Two events have just taken place which are of tremendous importance to our cause.
T
JL he first event was the coup attempt in Kabul against Najib. This coup had its roots in the power struggle between the two factions of the communist party. It was not the product of efforts of a party outside the government. If that party (Hezb) involved itself in the power struggle after it had happened, it was motivated by a thirst for power which it was prepared to take by any means.
The Mujahideen should not have involved themselves in the power struggle between the communist factions of Khalq and Parcham. They should only exploit these difference for the benefit of Jehad without abandoning their principle position.
Regime personnel when they surrender to the Mujahideen could be forgiven but ah alliance with communist factions is not acceptable to our Mujahid nation.
The second important event which happened during the holy month of Ramazan was the Mujahideen operation in Herat in which a large number of prominent regime officers were killed. This was an important episode because it dealt a severe blow to the regime’s ’Reconciliation Program".
The War in Afghanistan has not come to an end because the Soviet Union continues to support the puppet regime in Kabul.
To break the present stalemate holding elections in Afghanistan is proposed. But in a war-tom country where security is a problem holding polls and the establishment of a broad-based government for a transitional period is not a simple task. While Jami'at in principle supports the idea of consultation with the people and giving them a chance to determine their future, it believes that as long as the war continues and the Kabul regime organizations are still active, holding general dections in
the country will be difficult. In order to give a chance to the people to express themselves about their future, Jami’at supported the election program of the AIG but there are still problems in the way. Election constituencies do not take into account the population density. At the same time taking a census in a war situation is difficult Therefore, Jami'at supports elections based on old constituencies for the creation of a transitional body. When the situation permits constituencies should be remarked so that the population density is reflected.
The idea of a coalition government with the communists was first proposed by the Soviets in their talks with the Mujahideen in Taif, Saudi Arabia. The Mujahideen rejected the idea and described it as an interference in the internal affairs of Afghans. In 1988, the UN Secretary General raised the same issue with the head of the Mujahideen Alliance. The Mujahideen delegation told the UN head that the interpretation of human rights should be the same in the West and Islamic countries. How could we compromise with the communists in Kabul while after half a century the Nazi officers are tried in the West for their war crimes. The ex-head of the UN Mr. Kurt Welheim who is the current president of his country is barred from entering some countries because he served once in the Nazi Army. How could the Mujahideen sit with Najib who has committed tremendous crimes against Afghans.
w
V ▼ e believe that the AIG can play a temporary role to replace Najib. A revolutionary council with the participation of all Mujahideen groups, national and religious personalities and field commanders can also act as a temporary organization until a permanent government is set up. The election commission set up by the AIG can also do this job if its base is broadened and competent personalities are introduced to it.
The last option requires abolishing of the regime's organization of terror so that the present security organization could protect law and order with the help of the Mujahideen.
I want to express Jami'at's view on Agha Khan's plan for the return of refugees in 'peace and tranquility zones'.
The conditions under which the refugees were forced to leave their
country has not changed. Afghans who love their country left it to protect their religion and honor. Jami'at's policy was to prevent the depopulation of the country. We were aware of the complication the refugees were to face when they were displaced. Now Jami’at opposes the return of the refugees under any program not approved by the Mujahideen. We do not want the refugees to return under the supervision of those UN offices about whose intentions we have doubts.
There are practical problems in the way of returning refugees. Fighting still continues; villages are destroyed; food is not available and minefields have not yet been cleared. If peace zones are within the Mujahideen-controlled territory, their security could not be guaranteed. If the aim of this programme is to help the National Reconciliation program of the regime we reject it. If peace zones are within the regime territory, taking refugees to these areas is making them hostages of the communists.
T
An the international arena, we are a witness to the crumbling of the communist system . This development has given a hope to the oppressed nations of the world. The great changes in the communist camp started with the failure of the Soviet adventure in Afghanistan. Nations under the oppressive rule of communists were inspired by the heroic resistance of the Afghan people. Our Jehad also prompted changes in the Soviet Union itself. Struggle for independence in different Soviet republics, both with Muslim and Christian populations, has started. The reaction of the Soviet leader and the West towards the changes in different parts of the Soviet Union has been different. Gorbachev suppressed the mass demonstration of Muslims in Baku and Dushanbe using armed force and the West which has proclaimed itself as the guardian of human rights justified his action. But Gorbachev's reaction towards the Lithuania is reserved and the West warns Moscow against any armed action there.
Human rights standards should not change because of religious believes. In an Islamic government the rights of a Muslim are no different from those of Jews or Christians. The great prophet of Islam has said "a
Turn to page (4)