HFDHRH NEWS VOL III, NO 4, 15/2/ 199? PAGE 7
 talk to the people who administer, supply, organise, and direct a large'section of the Mujahideen and refugees populations. Among the two most eloquent people here were Br. Sayyid Kamel and Br Saifuddin (My interpreter during my entire stay in Peshawar was a 24-year old Tajik who knows English, Farsi and Pushtu )
 ! told the Mujahideen about the American Muslims who want to go to Afghanistan to fight the Soviets His response was that the Mujahideen have enough manpower; what they need are boots, jackets, clothes, sleeping bags, blankets and medicines use for surgical purposes, or money to buy all these.
 The Mujahideen are probably the biggest Islamic movement in the Sunni Muslim tradition. They have a clear perspective on Islam and, inshallah, will not be deterred from their Islamic objectives
                       SITUATION IN KHAHAN A DISTRICT OF BADAKHSHAN
 Kh&han neighbouring Soviet Russia, is a sub-district of Bad&khshan lies on the extreme North of the country. Panj River divided this district from the USSR. The Russians, have built a military base and an airport just on the opposite side of the river in a place called Yal. The Russians have also built a 300 meter foot bridge over the Panj River, connecting Soviet-land and Badakhshan
 Khahan is divided into these parts which consists of about seven main villages such as Sangab, Parkham. Numazpast, Houze Shah, Saildan, Ghouzan and Koof. Population of Khahan is about 12 thousand families of which 400 stay under government control. It takes four days on foot to reach the city of Faizabad, about 24 days to come to Peshawar from there.
 ENEMY POSITION:
 The Russians have two main bases with about 22 security posts. The first base is stationed at the center of the district and the other one is in the Koof area. The total number of the enemy forces are about 450 In addition to this number there are two Russian platoons The enemy has also built a small airport for mainly logistics purposes
                  Gul Mohammad who has been for six months head of government intelligent network
 (Khad) explained:
 Two Russians work at district administration levels. One leads the operations against Mujahideen and the other controls the whole intelligence network; Felex, 35. of Ukraenian origin was in charge of military activities and Aleek, (The man could not spell it) of Russian origin, from Azar Bayjan. was in charge of intelligence". "We did not have any communication set to contact the city but a year ago they brought a set which enabled us to communicate directly with the capital of Badakhshan The contact person m the city was called Jalil." Gul Mohammad Said; "The Russians have trained initially six agents and in turn these agents trained another 160 people,
 The trained agents were collecting information from the local population and submitted it to the first six agents. Enemy agents get a salary according to their work. It ranges from 600 Afs to 6000 Afs "The local Afghan agents provide information to the Russians every week."
 The tactics used by the enemy are more or less the same as in other parts of Badakhshan , long-range artillery and infiltration.
 POSITION OF THE MUJAHIDEEN:
 The number of armed Mujahideen is more than 500. All are armed with captured assault rifles. (AK-47). They are all from Jami at. The tactics of the Mujahideen are mostly attacking security posts, ambushing and infiltration the enemy forces to defeat them,