AFGHANews Vol 5, No 10, May 15, 1989, page ©
Regime may use chemical weapons against Mujahideen
The Soviet Union will face. American sanctions if the communist regime in Kabul uses chemical weap-ons against the Mujahideen.
U.S congressional leaders introduced to the house a legislation which would require the secretary of state to certify that chemical weapons are not used in Afghanistan approving pending business with the Soviet Union.
If chemical weapons are used against the Mujahideen legislation will prohibit US government to issue export licenses to companies involved in business with the Soviet Union.
Soviet Union has provided chemical weapons to the regime in Kabul and has control over the conditions of its use.
Recent reports talk of issuing gas masks among the soldiers in Jalalabad front, a possible sign of preparation for use of chemical weapons against the Mujahideen.
Strong protests against use of
chemical weapons by the Soviet Union limited it use during the years of occupation. The US Congress measure can decrease the danger but cannot eliminate it. A desperate enemy may consider public opinion less important then its immediate military need.
In the face of imminent evidences of preparation of the regime to use chemical weapons, the Mujahideen must prepare for the eventual situation.
The Mujahideen need protective gear and knowledge about the way to protect themselves and the civilian population against chemical weapons.
A spokesman of the Kabul regime has said that the regime has not used chemical weapons against the Mujahideen and will not use them in the future.
Informed sources say that Soviet Union has handed over to the regime stockpiles of chemical weapon after they left Afghanistan.
Regime fires Scud into refugee camp in Pakistan
A Scud missile fired by the Kabul regime killed two and injured 14 Afghan refugees on May 5 near the city of Bannu.
The incident took place two days after Najib, the head of Kabul regime, warned Pakistan of the expansion of war to Pakistan if that country continued to support the Mujahideen.
On April 7, regime had fired the first Scud missile into the border town of Torkham. The recent firing took place against Gambili refugee camp about 30 miles South of Bannu and 70 mile from Pafc- Afghan border.
Kabul regime in statement read out (Hi regime-controlled radio denied firing the missile but said that it reserved the right to hit what he called "the centers used by the counter-revolutionaries” a reference to the refugee camps in Pakistan.
The late incident took place after the UN Security Council ended its debate about charges made by the regime against Pakistan of violating the
Geneva accords.
Scud missiles have a range of more than 300 kilometers and has a war head of 1000 kilograms.
A large number of these missiles have been airlifted from the Soviet Union to Kabul to boost the capabilities of the regime in the war against the Mujahideen.
Regime have used this missile against the Mujahideen in Panjshir, Ningarhar and other places. Though it is not a very effective weapon against the Mujahideen positions, it can be very dangerous against the towns. Most of the victims of Scud missiles are civilians.
It is believed that Soviets are still assisting the regime in firing the Scud missiles. There are an unknown number of Soviet military advisors in Afghanistan which help the regime even after completion of troops withdrawal.
BM-27 rocket launcher also have been deliverd to the regime recently which a range of 40 kilometers.
Mazar-i

Jami'at chief commander in Balkh
province has had a meeting with the head of the Supervisory Council of the North, Ahmad Shah Masood to evolve a joint strategy against the Soviet-backed regime.
This was the first meeting between them since the death of Zabiullah, the famous Mujahideen commander in Mazar who had very close relations with Masood.
Alam Khan the Chief Commander of Jami'at in the province went to one of the bases of the Supervisory Council to discuss future courses of action against the enemy with Masood.
A spokesman of Balkh Mujahideen called the meeting an extremely good development
Commander Masood co-operated closely with the late Zabiullah and the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Mazar consider Masood as their elder brother who wants to help them.
The Meeting will expand the role of the Supervisory Council of the North in Balkh and its neighboring provinces.
Balkh and the neighboring provinces of Samangan, Jozjan and Faryab are of strategic importance to the two sides in the conflict because they are close to the Soviet border. The Kabul-Hairatan road passes through the area and gas fields are located there.
If the above provinces in which Jami'at has a dominating presence are organized , the Supervisory Council of the North will be connected to Herat, the Jami'at stronghold in the west of the country. The untimely death of Zabiullah had created a gap which is about to be filled through close cooperation of Balkh Mujahideen with the Supervisory Council of the North.
Persian publication after 50 years
A publication in Arabic script has appeard in the Soviet Union for the first time for more than 50 years, Tass reported on Friday.
A children's magazine in the Tajik language using Arabic scrip, has been put on sale at Dushanbe, the agency said. Arabic script was abolished in the Soviet Union in 1935 by Joseph Stalin.