Vol 5, No 15	August	1,	1989
Hikmatyar's men kill 30 Jami'at commanders, Mujahideen
US, USSR
discuss Afghan war
The US and the Soviet Union discussed the Afghan issue in a two-day meeting which began on July 31 in Stockholm.
This was the first meeting between the two sides since the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan on February 15.
Pakistan Foreign Minister, Sahibzada Yaqoub Khan, left Islamabad for Washington to discuss the Afghan situation with his American counterpart before the start of the talks.
The Soviets had said that they would propose arms cuta for both sides in the conflict.
The American side may not agree with the proposal because it will weaken the Mujahideen position. An arms embargo was proposed by America when the Geneva accord was being prepared but the Soviet Union rejected it on the grounds that it was against the treaties it had signed with the Kabul regime.
Since then, a large amount of arms and ammunitions have been either left by the Soviet army or has been sent by road or air. Bach day 40 transport planes land at Kabul airport bringing supplies, mainly weapons, to the regime.
The supporters of the Mujahideen fed that arms an embargo will put the resistance in a disadvantageous position vis-a-vis the well-armed communist regime.
The Stockholm talks may not result in any important decision. It helps the two sides to describe their stated positions once more.
For the resistance talks about Afghanistan in its absence have always been a source of concern.
Geneva talks between Pakistan and the regime which were guaranteed by the two super powers were conducted
Turn to page (2)
Thirty Jami'at commanders and Mujahideen were killed by Hezb Islami in Takhar province on July 9.
According toa report sent by Ahmad Shah Masood when the Jami'at commandos were returning home after a five-day meeting in Ferkhar some of them were attacked by Hezb Islami Mujahideen under the command of Sayed Jamal in Tangi-e-Ferkhar, a gorge half-way between Ferkhar district and Taleqan.
Commander Abdul Wadood and four Mujahideen were killed on the spot and 25 commanders and Mujahideen were taken prisoner. The prisoners woe executed the next day. Those killed by Hezb were:
1-	Dr. Sayed Husain, an important figure in the Supervisory Council.
2-	Commander Tariq and his brother.
3-	Commander Islam uddin
4-	Mawlawi Ezatullah
,5- Commander Payenda Mohammad
6- 19 junior commanders and Mujahideen.
There was no tension in the area at the time of the tragedy to provoke the killing.
It was reported earlier that the Mujahideen in Taleqan had reached an agreement to cooperate in provision of security for the city and keeping the roads open.
The meeting in Ferkhar was convened to discuss the military plans against the Kabul regime. Jami'at commanders from Takhar, Baghlan, Kunduz and Badakhshan provinces participated in the meeting.
On the way to the meeting some Jami'at commanders crossed Tangi-i-Ferkhar which is controlled by Hezb. At the end of the meeting they wanted to do the same.
The scale and manner of killing do
not have any precedent in the history of differences among die Mujahideen.This killing shocked Afghans and those concerned about the liberation of Afghanistan.
Jami'at leadership was shocked by the loss of its important members. The Mujahideen belonging to other parties were also saddened by the incident.
In a press release, Jami'at accused the Hezb leadership of involvement in the tragedy. Jami'at believes that without encouragement from the Hezb leadership which has a wireless link with Sayed Jamal, he could not have committed the crime because of the fear of reprisal.
Hezb’s public reaction to the incident has been contradictory. The head of the Political Committee of Hezb, while confirming the killing, attributed it to a local clash between Hezb and the Council of North.
A member of the Political Office of Hezb told the Persian service of the BBC that Masood was responsible for the incident He accused Masood of spreading his influence in the North and said that it was the duty of the Mujahideen to stop his activities.
When the outcry against the massacre continued unabated, Afghan News Agency, which is controlled by Hezb, published an interview with the Hezb leader, deploring the killing. Hezb's statement called the massacre a clash between the two local groups.
The Hezb leader did not say what he would do to those who had killed 30 people. It is believed that Hezb's final position is shaped by the pressure from public opinion and is designed to avoid further damage to the reputation of the party.
Prof. Mujaddidi, the President o ’ the Interim Government of
Turn to page (2 )