AFGHANews Vol5, No 22, November 15, 1989, page
Tradition creates snag for women's education
The women's wing of ami'at Islami in Iran pub-ishes a paper called Nida--Khuaharan-e- Musulman The Call of the Muslim Sisters).
The paper publishes articles about military and >olitical aspects of Jehad, amily life, women's activities, Afghan cooking and other interesting subjects. The paper is edited by luma Faizy.
The women's branch of Jami'at Islami in Iran is quite active. Its members participated the first and second seminars on Afghanistan held in Tehran.
The activities of the women branch of Jami'at Islami in Pakistan and Iran prove that contrary to enemy propaganda and the perception held in die west, the Mujahideen, and particularly Jami'at, does not oppose the activities of Muslim women which take place in the framework of Islamic Sharia-
Opening of girls’ schools inside and outside Afghanistan is another proof of Jami'at commitment to the well-being of the women.
One should be aware that part of the problems facing the women in the Muslim world, including Afghanistan, are rooted in tradition, not from religion. For example, Afghan tradition does not permit calling women by name in front of strangers. The people have started to think that calling the women by their name is un-lslamic. Women are called the mother of so-and-so and the sister, or wife of so-and-so instead of being called by their names.
It is well-known that calling women by their names is not an anti-Isiamic act. The Holy Quran talks about Mary, the mother of Jesus Christ (peace be upon him), the wife of Adam (peace be upon him), and wife of Solomon (peace be upon him), the sister of Moses (peace be upon him), and wives of the Prophet of Islam (peace be upon him).
When Taraki's regime took power, he sent his officials to take a census of the population. In the forms that families were supposed to fill out, there were columns in which the names of the women and their ages were to be written down.
People already suspicious of the communists’ policies started to react, and the war against communist rule
started.
Daud and King Zahir faced similar problems because they wanted to impose reforms which emphasized western values. Abolishing Hijab, and compulsory Western dress for women in schools and offices, antagonized the majority of Afghans, who found these policies un-lslamic.
These policies led to the confinement of educated women in the cities and suspicious among women about schools tun by the government
Traditional concepts which are thought to be religious need careful handling. The stupid mistakes committed by the communists and the monarchy are worth remembering.
The Islamic parties in Afghanistan have to solve the problem in clever way. They, have to persuade people instead of forcing them. They also need to show that western dress for women is not part of education and that one can learn without abandoning traditional and Islamic dress.
An Indian Muslim scholar, Prof. Mohammad Anwar, came to Kabul University during the time of the king. He belonged to one of the Islamic parties in India and had visited Kabul University to persuade Muslim youth to adopt Islamic values.
He told his audience that he was surprised by the way girl students of the Kabul University and school were dressed. They wore western dress and that was their official uniform. He said that the education was a business of the mind, not of the trousers. Our stupid leaders of the time had linked the two, in order to appear progressive in the eyes of outsiders.
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
ull

Flourish like a flower, But may your life be longer.
Usage: When one is offered some flowers.

No rose is without thorn.
Meaning: No one is perfect.


One flower doesn't bring spring.
Meaning:One swallow doesn't make spring.
Usage: Said of a person who tries to do too much himself.
apiii