   AFGHAN mm_____YQXuJI___NO. 15  1/8/1986__RAGHA
                          IHERJGHI-Ifi mF-PgTERMlNATIQN
 After the meeting of the Prime Minister of Pakistan with the President of the U.S.A, a spokesman of the U.S administration said " there was complete agreement on the objectives to secure complete withdrawal of Soviet forces and the right for self-determination for the people of Afghanistan”. Pakistan Times July 20, 1986.
 While we trust the good intentions of our Pakistani brothers we have been worried about the result of the ongoing talks in Geneva because the item of right of the people of Afghanistan for self-determination has been dropped from the agenda.                                                            ^
 it is big news for us that the two sides, Pakistani and the American leaders once more made it clear that the withdrawal and the right for self-determination are the two most important elements.
 We believe the right for self-determinnation is the central point. If the Soviets accept that then peace can come, if they refuse to accept that right for the people of Afghanistan peace can not come.
 We know that the immediate objective of the Soviets in Afghanistan was to change the right of self-determination of the nation to the right of ‘Soviet determination'.
                   Any settlement which does not include the right for self-determination serves
 the objectives of the Soviets.
                                            AN IRRESPONSIBLE ACT
 When the delegation of the Islamic Alliance of the Mujahideen of Afghanistan was visiting the U S.A, a group of Afghans who have been living there for a long time and some American citizens raised the question of formation of a government in exile. They had met together several times and had written a few pages, what they called ” the Constitution of the Afghan government in exile . Some of them approached the leaders to discuss their ideas. They were told that any effort which does not have connection with the Islamic Alliance of Mujahideen of Afghanistan will not go any where because the Mujahideen do not support it. Such action instead of bringing good results can create a lot of doubt about the cause, and may lead to the confusion of the supporters of Afghanistan.
 It was made clear to them that the Alliance appreciates any suggestion in this respect and it would be much better to discuss the matter with the Alliance to get its approval before taking any steps It seemed that they were not listening but following what they had started .
 Afghan News believes that a bunch of old bureacrats living the comfortable life of America, some of whom have accepted American citizenship and with no rea