AFGHANews Vol 7, Nol, January 1,1991, page Q
Afghan Mujahideen congratulate Walesa’s victory in Polish elections
Lech Walesa, the former leader of the Solidarity Trade Union of Poland and the symbol of struggle for democracy in his country, was sworn in as the first democratically-elected president of Poland in fifty years on December 22. The event marked the end of a long dictatorship in Poland.
Afghans welcome the victory of Mr. Walesa because the Solidarity Vlovement has given moral and political support to Afghan Mujahideen in their struggle against the Soviet invaders. Supporters of Solidarity Movement, all over the world, extended their support to Afghan Mujahideen by taking part in the meetings and processions organized in support of the Jehad and by reflecting the news of the Afghans' struggle in their underground and open publications.
The following letter sent by a Polish Australian to Mahmood Saikal, Jami'at representative in Australia, demonstrates the strong support by the Solidarity Union to the Afghan cause:
Dear Sir:
I had the honor of meeting you in Canberra some months ago, when you addressed the Australian Institute of International Affairs.
Three months ago the Polish community in Australia celebrated the tenth anniversary of the Solidarity Union. During that celebration, an exhibition of Solidarity memorabilia was held at the Polish Embassy in Canberra. During my visit to the exhibition, I saw something that I thought would be of interest to you and the organization your represent - a series of underground "postage stamps" issued by Solidarity during the time the movement was being repressed by the communist authorities from 1981 to 1988. Among the stamps were those which reminded people of Soviet aggression against Afghanistan. I managed to obtain photostat copies of those stamps, and I enclose them with this letter.
All the stamps were produced in full color, and were of excellent quality - better, in fact than most stamps produced by Australia in recent years. The first set of four stamps is mostly self explanatory; the words poczta podziem-na mean Underground Post in Polish. The next two stamps show, on the left, a Polish freedom fighter superimposed on the map of Poland; on the right is a Mujahideen superimposed on the map
of Afghanistan; in the center, the "post office" cancellation refers to the old royal capital of Poland, Krakow. The last series of two stamps shows, on the left, imperial Russian attacks on Afghanistan in the 19th century ( XIXw.; Ces Rosyjskie is an abbreviation for Cesars II Rosyjskie, meaning Russian Empire in polish). On the right the stamps show the Soviet(ZSRR= USSR) invasion in the 20th century (XXw). Polska means Poland.
Please accept these copies with my best wishes. I pray that communism will soon end in Afghanistan, that peace will come to that long-suffering country, and that its people may be permitted to work for a better future in an independent country.
Tom Ciesniewski Hackett Act 2602 Australia
Solidarity Underground Struggles for independence
Underground Post (unknown organisation, no date): History of Soviet military interve..uons:
~	'IJnisr	Coacnfii11
Summer 1953 Berlin camp
Spring 1968 Prague camp
mi rocniumm *	JOICN IfM 	Jth..	 d* POCXMPOCKMMNA *
WQ5MA IM ritti	ZIMA W7f nanrasucMN* M
Autumn 1956 Budapest camp
Winter 1979 Kabul camp
Underground Post (unknown organisation), July 1985, Solidarity with Afghan Mujahadins •*	"For	our	freedom	and	yours"
ZA NASZA i Wasza wolnosu /**	b	c1__d
100 LAT IMPER1ALNYCH PODBOJ0W
MOSKWY NA SRODKOWYM W5CH0DZIE
Hiiiiiiiiiia
XIXw.:
i <
30 POLSKA zt

*N I
P>/r^
so POLSKA
mi
xx

★
Poczta Podziemna