AEGHAKein Veit Soil, June L im Page3
winch they seized 250 light weapons, live ZPUs, eight mortars, six heavy machine gun* end live communication sets on May i%;
Before launching the
o;>eration the sob-district vas under Mujahideen seige for \ 3 days,
The Mujahideen lost <3 men and 30 others were bounded.
Kunar
AT least 40 militiamen were silted ami 10 vehicles were set on lire when the MuMhideen f row Jami'at faunciietl a ®ajor offens ive on the enemy's security posts in Tori and Chihari of Couki district-osiApril !2.
According to commander Abdul Hattim, four posts were captured and three vehicles were blown up by land mines in LsmataK area,
One jae^J commander and two MufahIrfeen were killed in ihe operation and another was injured^
THE Mujahideen shot down a Russian helicopter and killed six of its crew in Abdaki pass on May 5.
War dak
THE enemy troops evacuated their hosts in Sayyed Abaci district of War dak province located on the Kabul-Oandahar highway on May &, The area is under control of the Mujahideen.
Herat
*A big explosion in the Ammunition Depot of the D8A l7fh Division has caused great Josses for the enemy.
The explosion which took place on May 20 was caused
by sabotage work carried out by the Mujahideen supporters inside the base. The enemy base was burning lor several hours and the sound of explosion could be beared from far distance.
It is believed that a-great quantity of arms and ammunition and 3. large number of vehicles have been destroyed in the explosion. The enemy human fosses have also been great, but exa^t f igure is not available.
•In three separate operations on DR A posts the Mujahideen captured 45 Kalashnikov rifles, killed H m Hitts men and t oek p r I s one r eight others on April 22, ■
The first operation took place against DM security posts in the Western part of Herat city where four militias were killed and four others taken prisoners, They also seized 29 Kalashinfcov guns, five mo tor cycles and one Russian Jeep-
The Mujahideen lost three-men and J 3 others were Injured-
The second attack was launched on the militia posts belonging to Sayed Ahmad, a DRA militia commander in Carta area on May 13, In this operation Mujahideen captured eight militiamen and seized 11 Kalashinfcov rifles.
The third operation was carried out against three DR A posts in Gooshrolr area of Guzara district on May 19 As a result, six milltiamen were killed, 10 others injured and nine Kaiashinkov rifles captured.-
CONSTITUTION
APPROVED
THE Supreme Coune i 1 of the Mujahideen Alliance has ay proved a t empor ar y constitution comprising of four chapters and $7 articles.
Masood
Joses a dose companion
GULZAR, a commander of the Mujahideen in Pan j shir was killed on May 15.
He was preparing his Mujahideen for an attack against the
• Commander Gukar
enemy when a hand grenade exploded and killed him,
Gukar joined the Resistance in 1979 and soon become the commander of the first mobile unit.
Commander Masood has called his death a great lose for the Mujahideen,1
Read also obituary on page ( 4 ).