AFGHAN NEWS
No. 13
.V.-9-AI
p- hZ
9-2-85
The Russian Forces attacked Nahri Shahi District and besieged the area of Barmazid district at 10:00 p,m,
According to the report, in a counter operation to break the siege the Mujahideen destroyed 8 tanks and APCs, captured a large quantity of weapons and killed or injured a number of1 enemy forces.
Two Mujahids were martyred and one reportedly wounded,
8-8-§5_
Zari area of Shoulgar district was bombarded at 5*30 p.m by four helicopters resulting in the death or injury of at least 8 civilians including children.
8-5-85
According to a report signed by Commander Alam reaching Here from Mazar Sharif, Mujahideen of the area attacked a puppet government outpost at Quruk village which resulted in the death and injury of six government soldiers.
Xn a retaliatory operation the Russians bombarded Pikandara village of Shoulgar District . On the same day , according to the report Mujahideen were able to shoot down a helicopter during the operation.
The next day the Mujahideen attacked the same government post at Quruk which resulted in the death of about 5 soldiers.
 8-6-85
 The Russian forces have reportedly bombarded Abdara village of Shoulgar district. While the village was being attacked Mujahideen shot down an aircraft (the type of the air craft is not mentioned).
 The same day, Mujahideen also shot down another Jet fighter at Pikandara village.
 In a successful operation against a relatively strong government post at Kusbkat village, Mujahideen were able to capture at least 50 different pieces of light weapons.
 8-1-85
Mujahideen of Mazar besieged some enemy forces at Chimtal district from Is p.m to 60s00 p.m , According to the report a number of the enemy soldiers were killed. During the operation oneMujahid was martyred and one was. seriously wounded.
                 -.. JEGDALIK FRONT ' "
"6—51—85
The Russian-Karmal forces while returning from their massive Jaji offensive, suffered heavy losses at Jegdalik of Kabul.. Commander Anwar reported that at least kO Russian tanks and APCs with six military trucks were destrpyed and about 200 enemy forces were killed or injured