   AEGKAH NEWS YQL.1I______________8£Llfi_____M/1M .. JPAGJB-8
 Our casualties numbered 5 Mujahideen. One hundred civilians from Khailab, Eshkamish and Khost were martyred and some others were wounded.
 The enemy defeat, despite, the deployment of a large force was without precedent in this area in 7 years of war. It wras achieved wifh the help of
 Almighty Allah.
 Now the enemy forces have taken positions in Kunduz, Takhar and Paizabad and are protecting the road with hundreds of tanks. They are busy resupplying their garrisons.
 In Khanabad Mujahideen were hesitant to engage the enemy in the flat areas. They were afraid that if they did this in the agricuitral areas, the enemy would burn the harvests. The enemy exploited this weaknes .they. burnt the harvests, destroyed the houses and established many posts around the city.
 The enemy has delibrately destroyed, the irrigation systems to prevent peopie from sowing rice. The situation in Parkhar. Wursaj and Kalafgan is simiiiar. We can say in the three provinces about 500 civilians were martyred and the same number were injured. Many people have become refugees (inside the country ) and are facing shortages of food, medicine etc.
 The enemy has a plan to repeat simiiiar types of massive attacks in the future.
                                             HARMFUL MMXfjS
 The visit of the four Mujahideen leaders to the U.S.A made the other two leaders angry and this was made public in press conferences held on different occasions.
 There are journalists who raise the questions and Mujahideen leaders answer them. Now7 that the position of every body is clear no more debate is justified . The ideals of the Alliance and the need for cooperation are so great that university-type political debates are a waste of time and energy.
 The respectable leaders of the Mujahideen should bear in mind that there are many a lot of people in the world who give lip service in support of the Afghans and when the time comes to make real decisions, hide themselves behind such pretexts as disunity of the Mujahideen which leads them to question who they should support.
 The latest public debates are proving harmful because one more pretext is given to those who do not give real help. Let us not do anything which pleases the Soviets and saddens our people. Let us think about coordination in military and political fields Let us think about those who are fighting with empty stomachs and bare feet.