AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page ©
Commanders support Masood's program
The recent Mujahideen victories in cent victories were part of Jehad activi-the north of Afghanistan opened the ties to serve the interest of Islam. No way for disintegration of the Kabul re- linguistic, regional, tribal and sectarian gime, While these victories paved the motive were involved in these way for achieving all objectives of activities.
Jehad, unfortunately, they also created Here are the major points of some doubts in the mind of some Commander Masood’s answers to ques-Mujahideen and outside circles about dons asked by the commanders: the motives of Commander Masood • The recent victories are the result who led these operations.	of collective efforts of all Mujahideen.
The National Council of • There is no linguistic, regional, Commanders appointed a delegation to tribal and sectarian elements involved contact Commander Masood through in the recent victories of the radio and raise some questions with Mujahideen. Such factors are against him that bothered them. The delegation the principles of Islam and the interest included:	of Afghanistan.
• General Rahim Wardak of NIFA	• I do not recognize the "Islamic
•	Commander Anwar of Jami'at and National Movement of the North"
•	Eng. M. Afzal Ahmad Zai of (announced by Rashid Dostum) and I
Ittihad-i- Islami (Prof. Sayyaf)	am opposed to it
Commander Musa Khan of	•	I	rejected	formation	of a coalition
] ttihad-i-Islami	government with Watan Party and con-
Sayyed	Husain	Anwari from sider it against	the	interest	of
Harakat-i-Islami (Mohsini)	Afghanistan.
Malik Solaiman of Hizb-i- • I am in favor of formation of Wahdat	Islamic government and preservation of
Akhtar Mohammad Toolwak of the territorial integrity of the country. Ittihad-i-Islami	•	While	I	can	enter	Kabul and an-
On April 18 at 4:00 pm, the dele- nounce formation of Islamic govem-gation contacted Masood via radio and ment there, in order to avoid misunder-asked him the following questions:	standings, 1 am waiting so that the
Have you formed a coalition with Mujahideen leaders to form a govem-Rashid Dostum and Sayyed Mansoor ment and enter the capital victoriously, of Kahay?	•	If	a single party, expoiting the
Do you want to form a coalition recent victories of the Mujahideen, government with Khalqi and Parchami wants to monopolize the power and officers in the future?	prevent formation of a government in-
Do you permit other Mujahideen volving all Mujahideen parties, I will parties in the future government in not remain indifferent and use all forces Afghanistan?	available to foil such an attempt
After listening to the questions • I request all the Mujahideen lead-posed by the delegation, Masood ers to form an Islamic government and briefed them about his late victories in announce it from inside Afghanistan, detail. Their questions were answered • If the leaders fail to reach an and they started to believe that the re- agreement on formation of a govern-
ment, I have to invite commanders, elders and Ulamas to form an Islamic government in consultation with each other.
• I declare that as a soldier of Islam I do not ask for any governmental post Dear countrymen!
While we (the members of the National Council of Commanders) congratulates you on the fresh victories of the Mujahideen, we consider these moves in line with objectives of Jehad and in the interest of our people and support them wholeheartedly.
We advise you to abstain from harmful propaganda based on linguistic, sectarian and tribal factors which are harmful to the unity of the country.
A setijof,	hia
said that Washington's ability to provide r^on$trti^oii;:Wd wbujd feptUT.'

Rabbani advises refugees
Jami'at leader has advised the refugees to be patient and not to rash to Afghanistan Talking to a gathering of Afghans on April 26, Prof. Rabbani said refugees should be repatriated in an organized way so that they are not faced with problems.
About the role of officials of the previous governments in the Islamic government, he said that all of them were the Mujahideen's brothers and they should help in reconstruction of theircountry.
He said those people who fought againa the Mujahideen would be forgiven. An Islamic government is not a vehicle for taking revenge, he added.
oft; mission# effect,
pie from Mat dan Sharandbnug them
jto
® the incident was-^trolled by a
army officers .There was no information about the killer and his motive.
Aft* *
mstmsm mmm w#