AFGHANews Vol 8, No 20, October 15, 1992, page ©
Warmongers discourage Afghan refugees* return
Afghan refugees’ return from Pakistan, disrupted by Herb's attack on Kabul, has restarted. Scores of trucks, loaded wilh rcfugecs and their belongings, are arriving Kabul each day on_ their way to the North.
If the repatriation of refugees were not stopped by Hikmalyar's attack, by now, more than half of. the three million refugees would have? relumed.
Hezb’s attack not only slowed down the pace of refugees return, but forced a considerable number of citizen of Kabul to leave their homes and take refuge in the ptovinces or outside the country.
The refugees who had gone to the North are returning to the city and those settled in the eastern province of Ningarhar are willing to return but, according to reliable sources, Hezb Islami creates problems on the way of their return.
Hezb's warnings that the new refuT j g: is should not rerun to the city of Kabul until all political problems have hot been solved resulted in reduction of number of refugees returning home.
The Pakistani government sealed its border with Afghanistan to prevent entry.of new refugees to that country. Islamabad suggested establishment of refugee camps in Jalalabad. The UN and Pakistan offered giving aid to the new refugees inside^Afghanistan.
The formation of such camps in Jalalabad gives a golden chance to Hikmatyar to get assistance for his war activities from his Arab friends under
Asif Ali regrets aid to Hezb
Sardar Asif Ali, Pakista's minister for economic affairs, said on September 3 that his country's support for Gulbuddin Hikmatyar during the Afghan Jehad was a mistake.
His remarks came shortly after Pakistani authorities claimed that they stopped 14 trucks carrying weapons from Pakistan bound for Hikmatyar, who was launching rockets into Kabul.
Asif Ali said Hikmatyar was an unimportant person who had become strong through the patronage of General Ziaul Haq, and blamed Hikmatyar for the bloodshed in Kabul.
the name of relief goods for refugees.
Tens of Arab relief organizations in Pakistan used to provide relief aid to Afghan refugees and Mujahideen during the rule of the communists in Afghanistan. Despite the establishment of the Islamic Government in Kabul, they continue to supply Hezb and Ittihad of Prof. Sayyaf with goods and cash. These organizations send scores of Arab volunteers to Afghanistan to take pan in active combat activities against the government.
The Arab relief organizations collect money from Muslims in the Middle-East under the name of helping orphans and establishment of schools and hospitals. But, the money is used to fund Hikmatyar's war efforts which are making more people orphans and refugees.
On the subject of relief goods sent by foreign countries two incidents worth mentioning:
According to reliable sources, a prominent Arab figure sent a satellite telephone to his favorite Afghan parly by a plane which was carrying Sudanccs aid to Kabul. This was done without getting permission from the government.
The Islamic Republic of Iran has been sending relief aid to Afghanistan by air. In some occasions they do not hand the relief goods to the government authorities in the airport. They take the goods first to their embassy and then deliver to the Afghan side. This way of handling relief goods can cast doubt about human nature of the aid. If they wanted to supply the Iranian Red Crescent hospital in Kabul, they can arrange the delivery of such goods in advance with relevant Afghan authorities to avoid misunderstanding. -
asruddin's
How foolish can a man be?
Nasruddin was found pouring wheat from the jars of his neighbors into his own, at the communal wheat-store. He was taken before the judge.
"I am a fool, I don’t know their wheat from mine," he stated.
"Then why did you not pour any wheal from your own jars into theirs?" demanded the judge.
"Ah, but I know my wheat from theirs -1 am not such fool as that!"
Cause and effect
One evening Nasruddin quarrelled with his wife and shouted at her so fiercely that she fled for refuge to a neighboring house, where he followed her.
As it happened, a wedding feast was in progress, and the host and guests did all they could to calm him down, and vied with one another to make the cou'ple reconciled, to eat and enjoy themselves.
Nasruddin said to his wife: "My dear, remind me to lose my temper more often-then life really would be worth living!'