News
From page (2)
Herat Province
Commander Ismail Khan has reported fierce fighting between Mujahideen and regime forces in the districts of Ghoryan and Zindajan.
A large number of government militiamen, supported by 150 tanks and armored cars, attacked villages controlled by the Mujahideen on May 25. The Mujahideen killed or wounded 50 enemy soldiers and destroyed three tanks.
x Three Mujahideen were killed and nine were injured in the operation.
Ismail Khan has also reported rocket attacks on government positions in different parts of Herat
25 people were killed and dozens injured in Obe District when regime warplanes and artillery pounded villages controlled by the Mujahideen on May 20 and 21, Commander Ismail Khan reported.
Most of those killed and wounded were civilians. Bombardments also set on fire to the harvest and destroyed many houses.
The enemy attack was in retaliation for a Mujahideen attack on a regime military post. In two days of fighting, 30 enemy soldiers were killed and one tank was destroyed.
•The Mujahideen set fire to three regime oil tankers on the Herat-Toorghundi highway on May 21. The road connects Herat with the Soviet border and is used for transportation of supplies to the regime from the Soviet Union.
Faryab Province
In three incidents, 17 regime soldiers have been killed, 21 injured and 10 guns captured in Maimana, the provincial capital of Faryab.
Nine soldiers were killed and 15 injured when a truck carrying them hit a landmine planted by the Mujahideen in Juma Bazar, close to the city.
Commander Alauddin has reported that when regime troops tried to take control of the intake of the Juma Bazar canal, the Mujahideen killed three soldiers and wounded six. They seized three light weapons.
Commander Amir Choopan has reported that Ghulam Sakhi and two other soldiers defected to the Mujahideen after killing 4 soldiers. They brought with them eight guns.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 12, June 15,1990, page &
Dear borhter!
I receive regularly your very informative AfghaNews. I pass it to my brothers in Islam and after reading it, they now want to help your journal.	;
We have been shocked to leant about Hezb (Hikmayar) alliance with Mr. Tanai. Afghanews is true when it said that the coup against the Najib regime is a matter between two satanic groups, Khalq and Parcham, and that Mujahideen must take advantage of these situations.
But we have learned from other sources that the coup by Mr. Tanai was planned and executed by Hikmatyar sympathizers in regime's army.
After analyzing the two views we came to the conclusion that what AfghaNews said is more realistic. For if the coup had been successful Tanai's men would not have given all power to Hikmatyar. There will be some coalition
between the Khalq faction and Hezb (which would be anti-Mamie )ror else a clash between Hezb and Khalq. Allah only knows what will happen.
Dear brothers, the Jami'at position in the Jehad is good, no contacts with these Khalq and Parcham criminals. Power and honor comes from Allah. Wage Jihad righteously and well. Allah sees what is happening and He knows what to do.
There is no unity amongst the Mujahid brothers of Afghanistan, and it is very sorrowful. There is also no unity amongst the world's Muslims. If there were unity, our Kashmiri, Palestinian, Eritrean, Filipino and Lebanese brothers would already have been victorious on all fronts. May Allah grant you, the Afghan Mujahideen, victory.
Mohammad Rafick Port Louis - Mauritius .
Masood opposed to Kabul regime participation in Afghan elections
Following is an interview with Cmdr. Ahmad Shah Masood by the French News Agency correspondent in Islamabad.
Q. What is your opinion about the recent meeting of field commanders in Paktia?
A. We have felt the need to convene a field commanders' shura for some time. To that end we have worked together with commanders from other areas of the country. Convening the commanders council is neither an act against the interim government, nor a parallel proposal. We axe sine the leaders of the resistance parties will support our shura, which is the interest of our Muslim nation.
Q. If elections are conducted under the supervision of the United Nations and the Organization of Islamic. Conference, what. would be your response to it?
A. I do not disagree with the elections to be held under auspices of die United Nations, or the Organization of die Mamie Conference. We consider elections to be a sound method of setding the Afghan issue. But elections will be possible only when the People's Democratic Party steps down and an Interim Government trusted by the Afghan people takes its place.
Q. Could you say something about your spring operations?
A. We have the necessary manpower and experience to launch large-scale operations. We are in control of strategic areas which could be used to our advantage. But we are facing acute shortages of arms and ammunition. If this shortcoming is removed, God willing, our operations will start. .
Q. What is your feeling on the murder of a French national?
A. We condemn the murder of those serving the Afghan people and express our sorrow on the demise of diis French national. The persons responsible for this crime will be punished when they are caught. So far, we have no precise information on the motives behind the murder and the persons involved in it. We are far away from the scene of the murder.
Q. Some of the relief organizations have decided to cut their aid to Badakhshan province. Please say something about this new situation.
A. For several years the; people of Badakhshan have been faced with acute shortages of food. This year die people will have no better conditions because the draught still coninues. It is not a fair thing, in my opinion, to deprive needy people on account of the crime of a few miscreants. I hope all the humanitarian organizations will review their policy of cutting of assistance to Badakhshan province.
Q. Recently a diplomat in the Soviet Embassy in Islamabad charged you with sending 2,000 pistols and 20,000 anti-Soviet night-letter pamphlets to Central Asian Republics in the USSR. Do you agree with this?
A. The nationalities under the occupation of Soviet Russia are struggling for their liberation from the Russian yoke, and to decide their own destiny. The Russians are seeking a pretext to crush the resistance, therefore they spread rumors about the reason for the people's uprising.
Frederic Galland, 27, a French medical aid worker belonging to Medecines Sans Frontieres (MSF) was killed by unidentified armed men in Badakhshan Province at the end of April.
The French aid worker was working in Yaftal, outside the provincial captial, Faizabad.