AFGHANews Vol 7, No 17, September 1,1991, page 0
"Based on King Amanullah Khan's order and with the help of my friends, I tave captured Mazar city. Mirza Qasim, Sher Ali, Da Mullah Arab, Khalifa Qezel Ayak and Khalilullah (the writer) who fought against us for their own personal interests, have been defeated by the forces of our infantry and aerial bombardments. They are now in hiding. I ask you, the brave Afghan nation, to capture and bring them to us so that they are punished. You will be rewarded.”
The word "bombardment" used in the leaflets became powerful evidence for Soviet involvement when it reached the foreign ministry in Kabul.
I left for Kabul via Abdan-i- Mir Alam and Kunduz, and with a lot difficulties reached Khanabad, the center of Qataghan. Two days after my arrival, die Russian planes bombed Khanabad city and killed many innocent civilians.
abstinence from alcohol and haram foods, the foreign language spoken and unusual sexual segregation were just some of the factors building barriers between the Afghans and non-Afghans. Photographs of the rugged Ghantown dwellings, tin and mud mosques with thatched roofs with the nearby ablution pods, the graveryards. . . all draw the reader into this unique period of Australian history. Islam is clearly seen to be an integral part of these early Afghans' daily lives. Stevens has described the five pillars of Islam and how they were practised in the outback by these early founders of Islam in Australia. Rustic bush mosques sprang up wherever Afghans settled:
Fasting was adhered to strictly, even those who could not afford the time off work "continued to travel with camel strings across the burning outback," Islam was practised despite hardship and religious discrimination. One instance cited by Stevens was when Afghans were making wudu (ablution) in a pond and an outraged European shot and killed one of them for "washing their feet in drinking water."
Unfortunately, some of the aspects of the book pertaining to Islam are inaccurate, for instance Stevens has referred to the Afghans as "Muhammadans" rather than as Muslims. It has also been assumed, in some instances, that Afghan traditions and Islamic traditions are one and the same, when in fact this is not always the case.
Dear Sin
Thank you for sending your publication regularly. AFGHANews is very useful for our committee to carry on its work of information in Belgium about the Afghan cause.
Daniel Soil
Comit6 Afghanistan Belgique
Bruxelles - Belgium
To the editors: ASSALAMU ALAVKUM!
AFGHANews provides an unusually objective view of events in Afghanistan. On a subject where fair-minded analysis and description are at a high premium, AFGHANews provides both.
The reports of Engineer Esliaq have been particularly noteworthy for their detail and accessibility.
For my part, I would like to thank the staff of AFGHANews and the Jami’at Political Office for helping me to gather material for my forthcoming book. Holy Blood: An Inside View of the Afghan War.
Is it true that Commander Masood has dissolved the central units of his forces, as suggested in the profile of commander Mohammad Daud Zalali, Page 6 of the April 15, 1991 edition, Vol 7, No 8?
Paul Overby
Portland, Oregon - USA
Dear Sir:
I thought your editorial about the need for a balanced and responsible approach for a political settlement was very thoughtful.
I am writing to add some information to your report about the economic situation in Kabul (July 15, 1991). A German journalist reported a situation of hyperinflation, where people have to cany huge sacks of currency. International statistics can explain this problem.
Because Afghanistan is a member of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), based in Washington, it must report statistics of its monetary policy. These data, including the amount of currency in circulation at the end of each Afghan year, are published in the IMFs International Financial Statistics. The most recent data are from the end of 1368 (March 1990),
These data show the following. When the Communists took power in
1978 (end of 1356), there were Afs.
17.8	billion in circulation. About the time Najib announced the policy of "national reconciliation" (the end of 1365), there were Afs. 71.4 billion in circulation. This means that the average continuous rate of growth of the currency supply was 15.4 percent per year. This is high, considering that production decreased because of land reform, war, and emigration, but it is not extraordinary for a country at war without a stable government
During the first year of "national reconciliation,” however, the amount of currency in circulation increased to Afs. 1125 billion, an increase of 57.6 percent in a single year. By the end of 1368 (Idarch 1990), the amount of Afghan currency was Afs. 222.7 bil-lion. In three years the regime had more than tripled the amount of Afghanis 1m circulation. The continuous rate of growth of the currency was
37.9	percent per year. More than two thirds of all the currency in Afghanistan had been printed' since March 1987 (Nawruz 1366).
The reason is obvious. National Reconciliation was the regime's response to the decision by the Soviets to withdraw their troops. Instead of relying on foreign troops, they would have to rely on foreign material aid and their own resources. The number of their supporters did not increase. But because they controlled the government they had one decisive advantage over the Mujahideen -- they could" print money. They did not have to tax people, engage in smuggling, or even wait for the planes to arrive from the USSR (except for the planes with containers of banknotes, since Afghan banknotes are printed in the Soviet Union). They could raise the wages of the soldiers and civil servants and pay off some tribal leaders and militia commanders.
You have reported the results in in your paper without making the connection. Militia commanders such as Sayyed Kayan and Rashid Dustam have become increasingly active and important to the regime's military activities. These are die groups who are receiving many "containers" of currency.
Any future government of Afghanistan will have to repair not only the roads, bridges, schools and hospitals, but also the country's curren-
To page (8)