AFGHANews Vol7, Noll, June 1,1991, page @
SC commanders meet to review war strategy
The sixth meeting of the tion in the country.
Supervisory Council (SC) end-	• Establishment of the Council of
ed on May 2 in Taliqan, the Commanders was a positive step to-provincial capital of Takhar, wards unity and coordination of mili-after deciding on a number of tai7 operations. The resolution asks all important military and politi- die Mujahideen commanders to join
cal issues.
In the meeting which lasted for six days, delegates from 13 northeast provinces, including Kabul, Laghman and Bamyan took part
The meeting passed a resolution, the main points of which are:
•	Armed struggle for the replacement of the Kabul regime will continue. Peaceful means leading to the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan will not be rejected.
The Council will strive for territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country. It believes that establishment of an Islamic system will preserve the right of all Afghans belonging to different ethnic groups and religious sects.
•	The Council will re-organize itself to create an administrative system capable of dealing with a current situa-
the Council of Commanders.
•	The Council calls for the implementation of Sharia and maintenance of law and order and protection of public properties in the liberated areas. It asks all the Mujahideen commanders to treat the prisoners of war properly
•	The Council asks the educated Afghans, inside and outside the country, to help the reconstruction of. Afghanistan.
•	The Council proposes holding of free elections as the proper way for solving problem between the components of the resistance.
•	The Council renew its offer of amnesty to the regime's servicemen who join the Mujahideen.
The fifth session of the Council, held in 1989, was followed by massacre of Jami'at commanders in Tang-i-Farkhar.
Ismail Khan rejects regime's claim of victory in Zindajan
Commander Ismail Khan has rejected the Kabul regime's claim of capturing the Mujahideen base in Zindajan Distric of Herat.
In a wireless message, the Mujahideen commander said he was surprised by the Kabul claim, reported by BBC, that it had forced the Mujahideen out of their base in Zindajan. "The Mujahideen are fighting the invading force inside Zindajan and the Kabul regime’s claims are false," he said.
The Kabul regime had claimed that Mujahideen under the command of Ismail Khan had been forced to abandoned their base in Zindajan. BBC reported that the regime claim was confirmed by 'foreign relief agencies' - -UN and ICRC- - working in Herat Describing the fighting in Zindajan as very severe, Ismail Khan said that fifty jets, more than 1000 tanks and tens of thousands of regime troops were engaged in the attack which the Kabul regime had named "Desert Storm.”
According the message, so far.
50,000	people of Zindajan have become refugees to other areas, scores of Mujahideen and ordinary people have been killed and a large number of houses have been destroyed.
The Mujahideen have inflicted heavy losses on the enemy by killing 1100 regime soldiers, wounding 500, destroying 75 tanks and trucks and shootig down two jets and two helicopters, the message added.
Ismail Khan has asked for humanitarian assistance to the displaced people. He has called on the Mujahideen in other parts of Herat to intensify their operations against the regime and has asked young Mujahideen to return to the battlefields.
He has asked the international news agencies, especially BBC, to send their reporters to Zindajan so that they can report the truth and avoid spreading the false claims of the Kabul regime.
Landslide kills 80
Landslide killed 80 people and 1000 cattle and rendered 500 families homeless in Gandum Qul village of Keshm District on April 20. —     —_ — ———✓
IBrilishfmembe#' of parliament, Roy Hauersley, has lauded the spirit and determination of the Mujahideen to liberate their counfry. He was talk-ing-	Ajfghautt'	ipef^ge^:
near Peshawar. . .	ft
•••
The Mujahideen of Ningarhar Province have closed a trade route between Torkham and Sorobi due' to lack, of security. Through this route, goods were brought from Kabul to the tribal area in Pakistan. This deci |iton was. mad|-in a meeting Of conf jmandets representing aU the seven Mujahideen parties.
:;-f|This road became operational Torkham-J^kjabad road* was closed, Match , 1989 after the :^ahjd<^|;c^turld Torkham border post	'	/'MIT
Inflation rate in Afghanistan, during the fiscal year of 1990, was 62 !vbudget of 1990 was 231 million dollars, 60 percent of which was allocated for miUtaryiexpenditure^ ;;An average' Afghan earns li&ut $3 per month.
The Kabul regime bas fixed the price of a two-way air ticket to Mecca lor pilgrims (Hajis) one million Afghani (SI,250 ). The amount Is equal to 13 years' salary of. an 5$! erage government officer in Kabul.
“A Soviet ranking officer has said jjijjat 200 Soviet advisors iwere killed !duringp{: ||Ke»r ofecupaupri' , of Afghanistan; ••••	§
official statistics say
that only 14,000 Soviet servicemen were killed in Afghanistan, but this figure is disputed by Afghan resis tance and some Soviet veterans. They think the losses are much higher.
'’||f The Soviet official disclosed that 130 Soviet advisors were, lulled in .Angola andEthiojria.il. • ’’ ^ '«p
14	'<•••	”	w
SulUin Ali Keshtmand has been replaced by Abdul Wahid Saxabi as the vice- president of the Kabul regime. Kabul Radio reported.
The report did not give any rca Son for ii|changiand:;^v|'bo information about Keshtmand's new posting. Keshtmand is one of the senior pohtburo members pf the PDPA’s .Pareharo faction, ’ ' ; i > •
w