AFGHAN NEWS VOL, 111. NO. 15&16, 15/8/87 PAGE A
"We deeply regeret the tragic event in Makkah on July 31 and express our condolences' and sympathies to all those concerned.
We propose that the OIC convenes a conference of its members to study the situation and resolve the problems arising from the tragedy in a spirit of brotherhood and in accordance to the lofty teachings of Islam.
The Afghan Mujahideen, and especially Jamiat islami. who have good relations with both the Islamic Republic of Iran and Saudi Arabia are ready to play a constructive role in removing the tension that has been created.
                                                                                            i
NEWS FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS
                                        TAKHAR PROVINCE
                             MUJAHIDEEN CAPTURED KALAFGAN GARRISON
Mujahideen of Jamiat under the command of Makhdoo Abdul Iah. the commander of Kalafgan, launched an attack on the Kalafgan Garrison at 6:20 Pm. July 7,1987. In less then two hours -f they were able to completely capture the Garrison. The reason for their quick success were the size of their forces, the quality of their planning . secrecy of their movements, and the element of surprise
About 500 Mujahideen belonging to various units first gathered in Farkhar. Then they went to Sar Asia village of Kalaf-i . gan by 20 vihicles. At night befor the operation, they took positions in the field and waited until late afternoon of the next day when there was enough day light time for them to to approach the Garrison, but not enough time for Russian Jets and helicopters to intervene.
Mujahideen forces consisted of four mobile units from Panjshii Khos-o-Fereng (Baghan), Kishm (Badakkhshan), and Worsaj (Ta-Khar); Four strike units; and two units of central forces.
In order to prevent the enemy from sending reinforcement. Mujahideen of Taluqan and Keshera undertook simultaneous operations in their regions.
In the operation about 40 puppet regime's soldiers and officers were kiled or wounded and 115 of them were captured.