flFBHflH HEMS VOL .III, HO. 10, 15W19e?,PRCE 2
Pakistan had taken the Russian side urging the Government to recognize the puppet regime in Kabul and to take measures against the Afghan refugees. PPP which was si lent about the issue until the mid August, also joined the chorus after the Mardan explosions. After his trip to Kabul . Asghar Khan "debunked the propaganda which said the Muslims were being persecuted in Afghanistan." He said "Islam was not in danger" there. He praised the puppet regime's policies for "development both in education and industrial spheres." He also "accused Pakistan government of stopping the refugees from going back." According to him, "there is political will in Moscow to withdraw from Afghanistan;" but it is upto the Pakistan government to create "an: amicable situation."
                                                                                            c
Now the questions are why the Pakistani politicians accept the invitations and why they fabricate such flagrant lies. How can they close their eyes to the barbarism and inhuman brutal i ties going on next door--Peshawar hospitals and refugee camps are full of their victims? How could they disregard the views of tens of millions of their own population, hundreds of millions of other Muslims, and thousands of millions of peace and 1iberty-loving people around the world in support of the just cause of the Afghan nation? How could they not recognize the danger that the existancc of a pro-Russian government in Afghanistan will pose to the security of Pakistan? (As Prof.Rabbani said in one of his speeches, the presence of Afghan refugees in Pakistan is not a real threat to this country's security;but, because of the Soviet*s-long range plans, the establishment of a stable communist regime-in Afghanistan will certainly manance the integrity of Pakistan.) How can they forget the verse of the Holy Quran which states, "And why should yet not fight In the cause of God and of those who, being weak, are ill-treated (and oppressed)?" (A: 75>
We do not have any1 responses to these questions. Neither do we find any justifications for the behavior of the politi -cians. We consider them too astute to become tools in the hands of the Russians, on the other hand, we believe their trips are neither in their own interest nor in the interest of their country both in the short run and in the long run • Asghar Khan’s allegations are astounding. We do not expect the Maulana and Fakhar Imam to repeat them -though, we did not expect, their trips either.
while condemning the trips to Kabul and Moscow at this point of time, we invite the politicians to reconsider their posi-tionsand to re-join the majority of their people and their Muslim brothers in support of the Afghan Mujahideen.
we believe the politicians are mistaken about the mood of their country'. The ties among the Afghan and Pakistani Muslims are too strong and deeply-rooted to be broken by some terrorist activities. If the politicians hope to gain some political grounds by such trips and propaganda--in disregard to their religious and historical responsibi 1 ities--t.hey will be badly disappointed. Then, why should they dance to the Russian music?