  AEGflANNEWS___SPECIAL EDITION_15/11/1986 PAGE 5
 Although orgnizational work in the flat base areas is going on, it still needs a lot of work
 (6) Creating central groups:
 The need for central groups was felt right from the beginning. It was decided to first select the most experienced Mujahideen of Jamiat from six provinces and then expand it to other parties in the other provinces. The idea was to train these groups and produce qualified cadres Eligibility was (1) to be a good muslim (2) educated (3) with at least six years of war experience. Some groups recieved extensive training for six months According to Mohammad Muslim a central group commander," every Mujahid in the central group is capable (God willing) of commanding and training other groups " These groups are mobile They participate in the larger operations and they are t sent to organize the areas too. Worsaj valley was organized by group No. 2 in about two months although the area was relatively difficult The work of training more groups was slowed down by Russian offensives and lack of financial resources
 SOME SPECIAL CHARCTARISTICS OF THE ORGANIZATIONAL
                                WORK                     /
 (a) Mobility:
 Mobility is the base of the organizational work in the. north. Almost all the units are made of smaller and mobile groups. They believe that in a militarily unequal war mobility is vital. Without it the whole organizational system will be in danger. They believe that positional warfare is suicide. So from the leadership down to the supply units ail are mobile.
 (b)  Discipline:
 Once an area is organized, disciplinary measures become a necessary part of that organization , The orders come from the top and are obeyed by the lower levels. It is not at all a military atmosphere where troops obey whatever the officer says. Here the low levels are consulted in every matter and a decision is taken by all or majority. The minute the decision is taken then every body is bound by it In one case a very effective commander was imprisoned for one month because he neglected the order of the deputy of the supervisory council. Moreover rational obedience is a part of our religion, and consultation or Jerga is the core of our social and traditional behaviour,
                                                •
 (c)  Protection of civilians:
 Civilian protection has become the uppermost priority for the organization. Protection does not always necessarily mean military protection but also social, economic, political, moral, administrative and judicial protection as well. Beside other forms of protection, Mujahideen place the emphasis on economic and judicial ones,
                                               CONCLUSION
 Organizational work in the North is one of the sources of our optimism regarding the future of Jehad With such a kind of continous organizational work, we will(Inshailah) be able to bring more and more pressure on the Soviets inside Afghanistan. It will also create a reasonable context to make our friends in the world more optimistic and if possible to increase their support to meet our multi-dimentional needs.
 We believe that with the help of Almighty God, and an effective and continuous organization! work, as well as mobilized and united world public opinion against invasion, along with prompt help for Mujahideen and civilians, we will force the enemy to revise its policy.
  Note: Masood Khalili is a political Officer ofjamiat istami Afghanistan who has fust returned from a three months trip to Afghanistan. The above information is based on his personnel observation.