RFDHRH KEUS VOL,III, MO. 10,       15/5/196?,PROE  6
    2-KabuLGardiz, connecting Kabul to Paktia.
 The most important of all the above lines — and the busiest of them — is the Salang highway which connects the capital to the Soviet border.
 Traffic on the highways has been affected greatly by the war. The conditions of the roads are bad and they are useable only by day time. The roads were originally designed to handle commercial and private traffic. Now the military convoys form the main body of the traffic which use the roads Because of the war situation the existing roads have not been repaired since the beginning of the war. Movement of chained vehicle (Tanks) has created many potholes on the roads This has reduced the speed of the traffic to a large extent Maximum speed on Salang highway, for example is 30 Km/h
 The roads are unsecure. Since priority is given to the military vehicles, a little carelessness by the local road users could end in a tragic situation of being run-over by a Soviet tank or shot by an angry Soviet soldier.
 Moreover, due to the nature of the traffic, Mujahideen block the roads by setting ambushes and laying mines.
 In order to provide security for the roads the Soviets have created a series of permanent and temporary posts along the roads. In mountainous areas and in the regions with cover, these posts are situated close together. The posts are manned either by Soviets and DRA soldiers or the puppets' local militias.To maximize the security of the roads, the Soviets have cleared one-to-two Kilometers of the two sides of the roads of houses, treerand other obstacles which could be used as a coyer for an attack against the road The villages along the roads have been the victim of repeated Soviet and puppet reprisal actions after each Mujahideen ambush. Most of these villages are deserted now because of the continous attacks and acts of violence by the communists
 Despite all the above measures, the roads are useable only during the day and under the cover of gunship helicopters All the transportation convoys are escorted by APCs and even on some truck they have fixed machineguns. The posts are connected together by wireless sets and they are in consent contact with the nearest Soviet army and airbase
 The largestlransportation company which brings goods from the Soviet border to the capital is called AFSOTER. a joint Soviel-BRA firm. Puppets also force private truck owners to transport government soods in return for obtaining road permits. The communists are interested in uri&g private trucks mo're often to avoid Mujahideen attacks or confiscation of goods.
 The ovietshave extended two pipelines from the border to Bagram airbase near Kabul to meet their demands for fuel These pipelines run paralleL to the Salang highway They are good targets far the Mujahideen attacks and a large amount of fuel is being wasted every day Repairing the pipeline and extinguishing the fire caused by the Mu jahideen attacks have become a constant job for the Red army The rivers and streams which flow in these areas have a tiny film of oil on them which has flown from the pipelines to the rivers.
 In the past the telephone poles were extended along the roads Now there are no such poles because telephone conlaci between different cities has stopped since the beginning of the war The Soviets can boast that they have replaced the old-fashioned telephone system with a wireless communication system which connects Kabul to all major Soviet and DRA centers. Of course the system is used exclusively for military purposes
 There are many check-posts on the main roads some set up by the Soviet and DRA and some by the Mujahideen The Mujahideen confiscate a large amount of goods belonging to the regime and the Soviets and issue receipts which are signed by the area commanders and sealed by the party stamp controlling the area. These receipts are acceptable to the communists, that is, after seeing them they do not question the drivers any more. Confiscation of enemy goods is an important source of income for the