AFGHANews Vol 5, No 16 & 17, September 1, 1989, page ©
Famine threatens, disease kills people in Ghoor
By: Abu Pana
I and a friend of mine were sent by relief organization to Ghoor province to survey the conditions of health clinics there.
We started our journey from Quetta on June 5. It took us five days to reach Ghoor. On our way we passed through provinces of Kandahar and Helm and.
The Kabul regime controls part of Chekhcheran, the provincial capital and Shahrak district. The rest of province is controlled by the Mujahideen.
The Jami'at commander in Chekhcheran is Maulawi Musa. Since he is a religious scholar and a good fighter, he is respected by all the Mujahideen in the area.
A Harakat-i-lnqilab commander Ibrahim Baig had established secret contacts with the regime. The Mujahideen from all partied raised against him. He was forced to openly join the regime and establish posts in Ghook, Kamanj and Jelgy Mazar.
The Mujahideen fought against lim for 15 days. Some of his men with 225 guns were captured the rest retreated to Jawain sub-district of Badghis which is in control of the Kabul regime.
Ghoor is a mountainous province with cold weather. The land is less fertile and the people are very poor.
When we were in the area measles and whooping cough were killing a large number of children. In each village from 20 to 30 children had died and we were a witness to the tragedy. There was no vaccination facilities in the province. The four clinics in Ghoor were ill-equipped and manned by paramedics who had been trained in Peshawar for a few months.
Last winter’s harsh climate killed most of the cattle and some children.
In laal-Wa-Sar Jangal district which is controlled by Nasre and Sepah (two Iran-based parties) the situation was better. There was a hospital founded by a French organization.
Ordinary people in Ghoor could not find sugar and rice. Only commanders possessed these two luxury items. Most of the people could not tight lamps due to fuel shortages. Captured trucks and jeeps were facing the same problem.
Elders told us the only person who had helped them once iii their lives was Zahir Shah. "During the famine of 1970, Zahir Shah’s regime gave 21 ki-
lograms of wheat per family . After that no ruler and no Mujahideen leader has done anything to us", they said.
The price of food was very high . Four kilograms of wheat was sold for 700 Afghanis.
People sold their cattle and walked one week to bring food from Takhl area in Herat province. Every body in Ghoor complained about shortages of food. They expected the Mujahideen leaders to relieve their pain by helping them.
Madrasas (religious Schools) were open in different parts of Ghoor in which religious scholar tought students. There was no ordinary school for children. The reason is deep suspicion by the local religious Ulama about schools. They had seen how the communist regime used school against Islam.
Laal-Wa-Sar Sangal district is an exception. Schools are opened for both boys and girls.
In Ghoor there are six parties: Jami'at, Mahaz Milli (Pir Gailani), Hezb Islam i (Hikmatyar), Harakat Inqilab Islami, Itihad Islami (Prof. Sayyaf) and Jabha (Prof. Mujaddidi). Jami'at is the dominating force in the province.
Historic sites could be seen In most parts of Ghoor. The famous Jam Minarets are located on the banks of Hari Rood river in Shahrak district.
Famous NIFA commander poisoned
Haji Latif, famous NIFA commander in Kandahar, was poisoned to death by WAD (regime secret police) agents on August 7.
Haji Latif, 76, led the Mujahideen in the war against the Russians and the communist regime since the start of the Soviet invasion. His base in Malajat served as a stronghold of die resistance.
Haji Latif was a popular figure and was liked by the Mujahideen from different parties.
The two WAD agents who poi soned Haji Latif were caught and executed.
Haji Latif s death was a great loss to the Mujahideen in Kandahar. Haji Latif died but his Mujahideen will con tinue Jehad under the command of his son.
400 bodies found in mass grave in Bamyan
More than 400 bodies, buried in a ditch by the Taraki-Amin Communist Regime 10 years ago after a massacre, were discovered in Bamyan province recently, Haraket-e-Islami's representative, Abdul Hassan Rizwani, told AMRC.
Rizwani, said that the bodies were discovered in the first week of July when Ayatullah Mohsini, the leader of Haraket-e-Islami, in a recent visit to Bamyan, asked the residents to show the Mujahideen the bodies of massacred people so that they could be buried according to Shariah.
The Mujahideen searched the area and in a ditch near the airport about 40Q bodies were discovered. The search for 600 more is under way.
Once all the bodies are found they will be buried in a graveyard especially marked for the martyrs, Rizwani said.
Rizwani, who was one of the eyewitness of the massacre of May, 1979, narrated his story as following:
"In April of 1979, a number of religious leaders and elders were arrested by the Taraki regime. The residents of Bamyan under 90-year- old Sayed Mahmoud Ali, know as Lam Lam, started an uprising against the communist regime of Taraki. They carried out their first attack on the regime center in which they captured 30 regime supporters and several weapons."
"In the second attack for which the regime had made advance preparations a crowd of more than 2,000 people arrived near to the airport to attack it, they came under fire from the regime forces and about 1,000 people were killed or wounded and several hundred fled from the scene."
Rizwani said that he was also among the attackers but managed to escape.
He added that the regime allowec nobody to come close to the scene of the incident and after searching and tak ing away valuable items the regime buried the bodies with bulldozers and levelled the site of the buried bodies so that it could not be recognized.
He invited human rights organizations to send their delegations to the area to see the bodies of the massacred people.