AFGHAN NEWS
VOL. II

 ■ /Mfi

 ISsSslgSi.
JEhSL
     which is detrimental to muslims as a whole.
        Hhe:BUMtSyaedia in the West is not reacting in a responsible way. It is not careful about the words it uses and the back-ground it shows. For example, when news of a terrorist crime is being broadcast on television a shot of muslims praying is shown. This gives the impression that all muslins are terrorists. If this situation continues and if the secret hands of Jewish and Christian fanatics continue to fan the fire, mutual suspicion between muslims and the Western world will increase. "'One * should not forget that the Communists (Soviets) are waiting to exploit this situation and spread their ideological and political influence in the Muslim world.
                                                                            *
        We believe prejudice against other religions is very rare in the Muslim world. Muslims respect Moses and Jesus Christ as true prophets and consider the old and new Testament books sent by Allah. The people of the book (Christians and Jews) are granted the right in Islam of practising their own religions, -
        Apart from anything else the cause of Afghanistan is suffering too. We Afghans are muslims and our struggle against the Soviets i* carried on under the banner of Islam. Since awareness of Islam is limited, any coverage of terrorists which blames Islam can cause reluctance amongst Western societies to support the just, clear and Islamic cause • of Afghanistan.
        We hope that the mass media in the West will behave in a more responsible way and attribute terrorist actions to the individuals or groups who do them, not to all Muslims and Arabs.
        We muslims believe that any action endangering the life of innocent people is wrong and reject it. At the same time any counter-terrorist action which goes beyond proper limits and endangers the lives of innocent people is condemned. But any attempt to use individual cases to implicate Islam itself is a crime. The West should be on their guard against Zionist malice which seeks every opportunity to defame Islam and muslims and finally no effort should be spared to solve the problem which underlay terrorism, the sepse of frustration felt by people driven from their homes and massacred in refugee camps, a frustration which reveals violence itself in and can be used by irresponsible politicians.
                     news _
     17-5-1986
     In an operation conducted by Mujahideen of Jamiat in Jaji of Paktia province, the Mujahideen encountered a detachment of llussian-DRA forces and after heavy fighting between the two sides, starting at 3:a.m , more -than 40 enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded. In addition. Mujahideen siezed five gins (two Goorinov machinguns, Klashinkov and 2 AK-74s along with a heavy mortar).
     Five Mujahids were seriously wounded in the operation. The areas are