AFGHANews Vol 8, No 23, December 1, 1992, page ©
Moderate' Mujaddidi reconciles with 'fundamentalist' Hikmatyar
Former	president
Sibghatullah Mujaddidi has begun to speak on the same wavelength as Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, and has assumed the role of peace broker between Hikmatyar and his enemies.
Mujaddidi has begun to support the idea of turning the security of Kabul over to the interior ministry and commanders from Kabul, a longtime demand of Gulbuddin Hikmatyar. He has shown sympathy to the demand of Hikmatyar that imported food and fuel be distributed through an all-party commission rather than by the government.
When Mawlawi Mansoor was kidnapped by Hezb, it infuriated most Mujahideen parties, but Mujaddidi tried to play down the severity of the incident. He said Hikmatyar told him that everything was "OK" and "there was a small misunderstanding".
This was a description of an incident in which Mansoor was kidnapped and humiliated, two bodyguards were killed and 15 were injured and about $400,000 cash was stolen. In limes past, Mujaddidi would have reacted angrily and condemned Hikmatyar for what he had done.
In . meetings of the Leadership Council, Mujaddidi and Hc/.b alone opposed the extension of Prof. Rabbani’s office term. Hezb chose to vote for Mujaddidi to replace Rabbani.
This change of attitude has an interesting history. When Prof. Mujaddidi wanted to dump the Peshawar Accord and extend bis office term, his move was opposed by other parties, especially Jami’aL Mujaddidi tried to get the support of General Dostum for his bid, but he backed off, realizing the seriousness of the situation.
Hczb’s leader, who wanted to see infighting in Kabul, sent a message to Mujaddidi assuring him of his support for extension of his office term. Mujaddidi became an enemy of Prof. Rabbani and Ahmad Shah Masood ( the mortar binding the two former rivals).
Soon after the assumption of power by Prof. Rabbani, Mujaddidi left
Kabul and went into exile for about four months. He returned to Kabul when the term of Rabbani's office had expired. Najibullah Mujaddidi also abandoned his post as health minister, leveling accusations that the government was interfering in his work.
The warming of relations between Hikmatyar and Mujaddidi is an important development which might confuse many Afghanistan watchers.
In the past fourteen years the two men have had numerous verbal confrontations. Even since the fall of the communist regime the two have dashed. Hikmatyar had proposed Mujaddidi's removal as one of die conditions for ceasefire.
Mujaddidi went to Mazar, called Dostum a great MujaJud and promoted i him to the rank of General, while I Hikmatyar opposes presence of Dostum's forces in Kabul,
What then has brought them together? Their only common ground is this:	both consider Masood and
Rabbani, with their vastly greater popular base, obstacles to their dreams for power.	f
Journalists used to label Hikmatyar "fundamentalist" and "radical" and Mujaddidi "moderate" and "monarchist". But expedience outweighs ideology, especially among those left on the sidelines.
This and other recent developments ought to force journalists and Afghanistan experts to revise their Afghan political dictionary, and to be more careful in using the "moderate v$. fundamentalist" terminology in ihc future.
Just as well I came along
Nasruddin was walking past i well, when he had the impulse to look into it. It was night, and as he pccret into the deep water, he saw the Moon': reflection there.	.	*
"1 must save the Moon!' Nasruddin thought. "Otherwise she wil never wane, and the fasting month o Ramadan will never come to an end."
He found a rope, threw it in am called down: "Hold tight; keep bright succor is at hand!"
the rope caught in a rock inside th< well, and Nasruddin heaved as hard a he could. Straining hack, he sudden) felt die rope give as it came loose, am Ht was thrown on his back. As he la; there, panting, he saw the Moon ridin in the sky above.
"Glad to be of service," sai Nasruddin "Just as well I came along wasn't it?"
Man bites dog -that's news
Nasruddin had been out of tow on one of his long hikes. As he cntcrc the village be saw the people hurryinj one and all. towards the market-plan "Don’t you know? A man has been o the .pilgrimage to Mecca. This yc« there were a hundred ihousand pcopl there - and he is giving a lecture aboi «L"
'.From the excitement," sai Nasruddin, '1 had almost concluded th the pilgrimage had come to him-not tl other way about"

aifated
The Prophet (
him) said.
person
lah is the most relsome person.