flFUHRH hCM8 VCL. 1(1/H0.1, 1/1/1907 PflDE 4
As Muslims and the guest of the people of Pakistan. Afghan refugees were saddened by the news of communal disturbances. We hope that the atmosphere of love and mutual trust return back in that city soon.
                                           INTERVIEW WITH RABBANI
(EXTRACTS FROM PROF. B. RABBANl'S INTERVIEW WITH BBC CORRESPONDENCE. GEORGE ARNEY. ON NOVEMBER 10,1986.)
0 What do you think about the Mujahideen delegation which went to New York?
A. We approve of the trip and have sent our representative with the delegation. We consider such delegations useful.
0 How do you find the Unity ( among seven Mujahideen groups)? It seems that you have some criticisms.
A. In our view the Unity has not reached its ideal stage yet.lt is useful as it is. but not to the extent that we wish.
Q What kind of improvements are needed and in which direction?
A There should be one single headquarters. Moreover, our military co-ordination inside the country should be strengthened.
Q Is there already some military co-ordinations inside Afghanistan?
A. Yes. there are a series of co-ordinations among Mujahideen at the present. Certainly such co-ordinations have had positive effects on Jehad.
                                                                  I
0 And there is need for more?
A. Yes, the stronger the co-ordination, the more effective will be the result.
                     Q. Are there practical problems? It seems that Hikmatyar and Sayyaf are not that close
to other groups.
A Of course, all revolutions have problems. We hope the problems are solved in the process of evolution of the revolution.
Q. If it is proven that the U.S.A has provided Stinger missiles to the Mujahideen, will this result in a shift in the Mujahideen's policy? Will there be any changes?
A. We do not have any information about this yet. Jami'at does not have any Stingers, and we do not know how true it is about other groups.
Q, After Pleneum 19, Najib always announces that he wants to establish a government of national reconciliation together with the forces outside the country. Do you consider this is an amnesty? And will this amnesty include you people?