AFGHANews Vol7, No 20, October 15,1991, page ©
Editorial
Unity among Mujahideen insures return of peace
The Afghan Jehad has entered an extremely critical and complicated phase demanding a careful and responsible approach of all the Mujahideen leaders. The recent changes in Moscow have brightened the prospect for a peaceful solution of the problem. World opinion is in favor of a political settlement of the issue. The UN five-point plan is considered to form a sound base for a settlement.
The Mujahideen have to take into account these changes in evolving their policy for a political settlement. A sound policy, supported by the majority of Afghan resistance groups, is necessary to achieve a honorable political settlement. Failure to adopt such a policy in the near future will pose serious problems to the resistance which will be exploited by the Kabul regime. Lack of such a policy will isolate the resistance which has enjoyed the sympathy of the majority of the world.
In evolving a sound policy, the leaders should try to involve all the effective forces of the Mujahideen. This is not only necessary for achieving a settlement but also vital to maintenance of security and national unity. Unity among the Mujahideen has become more important than any other time in our struggle.
Events of the past two weeks showed that some leaders of the Mujahideen, tempted by new peace prospects, have paid little attention to take the other Mujahideen leaders in confidence. When Soviet Foreign Minister discussed the options for a transitional administration, the Mujahideen leaders' reactions woe uncoordinated and even contradictory. Such proposals should have been discussed among the leaders before showing any public reaction to them. Such proposals might help the peace process but they can prove useful when the Mujahideen act stick together.
It seems that part of the problem among the Mujahideen takes root from unprofessional handling of the press. A leader is easily provoked by a journalist whose comments lead to an angry statement by another. The contradictory statements by the Mujahideen leaders led to the speculation that the Mujahideen were divided over the issue of a political settlement, while the delegation to New York and meeting with the Soviets was a common decision of all the Mujahideen parties. The best way to deal with such issues is to discuss them in the joint meeting of the parties and try to get as many groups behind a decision as possible.
It is unfortunate that the terms, fundamentalists and moderates, created by journalists to describe the political tendencies among the Mujahideen are being used as a wedge to separate the resistance groups from each other.
Since no Mujahideen leader can claim that he his able to win the war or peace in Afghanistan alone, they have to learn working together despite difference of views on some issues. There might be some Suggestions by the outsiders that the Mujahideen should take quicker steps towards peace even at the expense of leaving behind some resistance groups, this approach might lead to signing some papas but will not bring real peace. Peace can come when the majority of the effective resistance forces work for it.
Some leaders might try to play on the feelings of the people living in the cities by showing too much concern about suffering of the people there and the need for achieving a quick peace. They should also must be aware of the strong feelings of thousands of the people in the side of the Mujahideen who are riot ready for the slightest compromise with the communists.
Jami'at is always ready to act as bridge between the two groupings in the resistance. The recent statement isSued by Jami'at regarding the Soviet proposals meant to reflect the above concerns, but poor journalism combined with biased reporting gave them a different look.
Jami'at hails freedom of Baltic states
Jami'at Island Afghanistan welcomes the freedom of the three Baltic states of Lituania, Latvia and Estonia from control of USSR.
The people of these countries sympathized with Afghan people and supported their struggle against the Soviet occupation troops. Balts living in exile always attended the rallies and meetings held in support of the Mujahideen in Western countries.
The heroic struggle of Mujahideen against the Red Army was a source of inspiration for the people of these countries.
While Jami'at congratulate the people and governments of the three Baltic states on their historic success, it hopes that the Islamic republics in Central Asia are also allowed to choose their future. The freedom-loving people of world, especially the Islamic countries, should support the demand of Islamic republics for freer dom on the same way that the world community supported the demand of Baltic states.
Tea bartered with wheat for Kabul
India will provide 50,000 tons of wheat as a donation to the Kabul regime. According to an agreement signed in Kabul, India will give 1,500 tons of tea to Kazakistan Republic erf USSR and in return Ka7a1cistan will give 50,000 tons of wheat to Kabul.
Being worried about food situation in the Soviet Union, Kabul has tried to diversify its source of food import. The Kabul regime is willing to sign new trade agreements with the Soviet Central Asian republics. Kazakistan will sell Kabul 50,000 tons of meat in return for hard currency. The Kabul regime has also allowed private traders to import 200,000 tons of meat from Europe. The new moves will decrease the value of. Afghan currency and push the priceof food higher.
Leader wounded
Mohammad Amin Ferotan, the Deputy Leader of Harakat Inqilab Islami Afghanistan (Mansoor group) was seriously wounded by unknown gunmen in Peshawar on September 22.