AFGHANews Vol7, No 1, January 1,1991, page @

44 B4
■0£:->-y '
y4- -r v3 ‘
B d teoV
y<fv s rtwv
k;
a&:tt ■■■ i
......
«ps#$
.VAV^A'CSv^.V. .V.Vj-.V.
BB'4
W4mM4
lllllli
	N
Editorial c	
Afghan peace suffers setback
The resignation of Soviet foreign minister Edvard Shevardnadze may have a negative effect on Soviet foreign policy. Strengthening the position of conservative elements within the Soviet government will insure Soviet support for the Kabul regime and prevent a political settlement.
Shevardnadze's resignation of December 20 was caused by disputes within the Soviet government. He had become foreign minister of the USSR in 1985. He was a close friend of Gorbachev and a strong supporter of his reforms.
The Soviet foreign policy underwent many changes under Shevardnadze. Democratic changes in Eastern Europe was tolerated and some steps were taken towards arms reduction and ending the Cold War in Europe. Soviet-American cooperation in the Gulf crisis is another example of such a change.
The major development in regard to Afghanistan was the withdrawal of Soviet troops, which was completed by February 15,1988. But, despite the withdrawal of troops and Shevardnadze's denunciation of the invasion, the Soviet Afghan policy did not change. Military support for the Kabul regime continued. New weapons systems, including SCUD missiles, were given to the Kabul regime; thousands of Soviet advisors continued to help the regime army in military operations, and Soviet cross-border artillery and aerial attacks against the Mujahideen along the Soviet-Afghan border continued. Soviet economic aid to the Kabul regime increased after the Soviet troop withdrawal. Food and fuel were sent to regime to keep it in power. Soviet diplomatic support for the Kabul regime persuaded some countries to deal with Kabul.
It is believed that the KGB and the Red Army are in control of Soviet Afghan policy. This policy treats Afghan issues as if they were problems of a Soviet republic and not as issues of an independent country. The aim of this policy is to' insure a key role for the PDPA in any future government in Kabul. With this background, one can safely conclude that Shevardnadze's resignation will not have a great impact on the Afghan situation and Afghans do not regret his departure.
Although no significant change was witnessed in Soviet Afghan policy during Shevardnadze's tenure, he was engaged in political discussions with Americans to find a political solution to the problem. His resignation will slow down the process of seeking this solution. In case the hard-liners get control of foreign policy in Moscow, prospects for a political settlement will diminish.
It should be added that the Kabul regime is worried about a stoppage of Soviet arms because it will hurt the morale of its supporters. The Kabul regime will also face tremendous problems because of shortages of spare parts for its sophisticated weapon systems. An arms embargo will not have a devastating effect on the resistance because supplies of arms to the resistance were greatly decreased after the Soviet troop withdrawal, and the Gulf crisis reduced the quantity of arms reaching the Mujahideen further. The Mujahideen have readjusted themselves to a reduced level of foreign aid.
Although Gorbachev has said Soviet foreign policy will not change, radicals who cannot reverse the process of democratization in Eastern Europe might demonstrate -their opposition to the soft foreign policies under Shevardnadze by adopting a hard-line policy on Afghanistan. In that case, the Soviet overt and covert support for the illegal regime of Najibullah will continue and even might increase.
Continuation of die present Soviet Afghan policy -- military and political support for the Kabul regime — will not make the communist regime in Kabul acceptable to Afghans and will not solve the Afghan issue on Soviet terms. The experiences of the past 10 years must have shown that employing oppressive means to suppress the Afghans' freedom struggle not only failed to weaken their
Tumtopage(6)
The French Cultural Center for Afghans in Peshawar has organized an exhibition cf 44 paintings, drawings, and pottery pieces by Abdul Qadir Hakimi, an Afghan artist.
The exhibition started on December 15 and will remain open to the public till January 15, from 3:00 pm to 6:00 pm on office days, at C 27/28 Spinzer Plaza, University Town, Peshawar.
The exhibition depicts the real way of life in Afghanistan, outside the occupied cities, and reflects the revolutionary spirit of Jihad.
Hakimi, 41, was born in the resort town oflstalif, about 30 kilometers north of Kabul. His father was a goldsmith. After primary school in Istalif and Ibn-i-Sina secondary school in Kabul, he attended the art school in Kabul.
After graduation from the Teachers Training Academy, he served as the art teacher of the French-medium Istiqlal high school in Kabul for twelve years. The school awarded him a three-month scholarship for painting in Paris.
When . the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, Hakimi became a refugee in Pakistan. He worked first in the Audio-Visual Department of Jami'at Island Afghanistan and later started to work as the dissemination field officer and designer ofICRC.
This is the sixth exhibition of Hakimi's work; two have been in Kabul, four in Pakistan.
Hakimi told AFGHANews that he has learned a lot from Afghan and Pakistani artists since he became a refugee. He admitted that meeting Afghan artists in exile was much easier than in Afghanistan. Even before the war, there was little contact between artists in Afghanistdn.
He admires the work of Ustad Ghousuddin, Shahrani and superb miniature work of Mohammad Ali Shahdad.
Hakimi believes that closer contact between Afghan artists and their encouragement by the Mujahideen parties can improve the quality of Afghan art. He said some Mujahideen parties have encouraged calligraphy but little has been done to promote other forms of art.
Turn to page (6)
J