Vol 6, No 16	August	15,1990
Cairo meeting supports Mujahideen
The QIC ministerial conference in Cairo-supported the Mujahideen efforts to secure their right of self-' determination.
The 19th conference of the foreign ministers of the Islamic countries was opened in Cairo by President Husni Mubarak on July 31.
The conference asked the member states and all the rest of the world to give support to Afghan refugees and help reconstruction efforts in Afghanistan. The Islamic Bank will study the reconstruction program of Afghanistan.
The conference emphasized the need for a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan. It felt the need for a broad-based representative government as a mean to bring peace in that country.
The foreign minsters’ conference felt that return of peace was necessary to give permission for the refugees to return voluntarily and in honor to their country.
The resolution asked the member countries to send humanitarian assistance to the people inside Afghanistan.
The Mujahideen delegation in the conference was led by Prof. Rabbani. He informed the conference about the situation in Afghanistan and the need for giving; support to the Mujahideen.
Prof Rabbani held private talks with many delegations attending the conference to inform them about the situation in Afghanistan. He also talked to the OIC Secretary General Hamid-ul-Ghabid. The Mujahideen delegation took a bold stand in opposing the Kuwait invasion by Iraq.
The resolution adopted on Afghanistan was prepared by a committee including the representatives of Pakistan, Iran, Afghan Mujahideen, PLQ and Syria.
The Cairo conference was rignifi-cant because it precedes meeting of head states of Islamic countries in /January oH^j ip Senegal.
UN prediction about massive return of refugees unrealistic
Primary figures show that the UN repatriation program of the Afghan refugees has not been as successful as predicted.
From July 25 to August 5, only 815 families have returned their ra-, tion passes to the UN authorities and have received Rs. 3300 in cash and 300 kilogram of wheat.
The UN expects to send 40,000 refuge families back to Afghanistan within three months.
Most of the returning refugees belong to the camps in Baluchistan. UN says 522 families have returned from Baluchistan and 293 families from North-West Frontier Province.
The UN program^ backed by Pakistan and theUS, is opposed by the Mujahideen parties. The Mujahideen argue that the situation in Afghanistan does not allow the safe return of the refugees. They are also worried about the political benefits that the Kabul regime will gain from implementation of the UN program.
The Afghan refugees opposed to the program staged demonstrations in two camps in Baluchistan, calling the program a conspiracy against Jehad. A group of 216 Ulamas have signed a declaration calling the program a conspiracy of Ismailis against Jehad, an open reference to Sadruddin Agha Khan's involvement in the program. Agha Khan belongs to the leading Ismaili family. Most Ismailis in Afghanistan are cooperating with the communist regime in Kabul
A group of elders in Bajawor Agency refugee camps have said the returning refugees from Kunar will be fined by the local authorities inside Afghanistan.
Despite all the opposition no violent action has been reported against >4he returning refugees inside Pakistan.
The repatriation program lias met the mixed reaction of Pakistanis. Some people have shown pleasure that finally the refugees were leaving. Some prO-Najib parties have asked the refugees to
return. The Islamic parties, on the other hand, have opposed the program and havb called it premature.
Some Pakistani Ulamas said in their Friday sermons that while the communist regime was still in power in Kabul the return of refugees was not safe.
BBC reported that five unregistered refugees living jn the tribal area in Pakistan were apparently fenced to return to Afghanistan by a local tribal leader, Malik Nadir Khan. He has formed an armed group and is busy working for cease-fire and national reconciliation.
The Kabul regime has tried to gain propaganda benefit from the UN program. Regime diplomats in Pakistan tried to say that the situation in Afghanistan was normal for the return of the refugees.
The cabinet of the regime also met to discuss arrangements for the rehabilitation of the refugees. Listening to the UN officials and the regime one wonders who was in charge of the program!
The three million refugees living in Pakistan are divided into two Categories: The registered refugees who get assistance from Pakistan and UN authorities and un-registered refugees who receive no assistance.
The current UN program helps only the registered refugees while most of those who have returned are the un registered refugees escaping the hardship of life in exile.
Those refugees who return say that the UN cash and wheat allo wances are not enough to take -diem to their villages.
A Western relief worker who has a lot of experience with Afghan problems says security and means of making living are the two concerns of the refugees. If the area is not safe and a means of living is not available, the refugees will not return. "Afghans know 'their country better than any outsider. They will go when they feel the situation is suitable,” he said.