AFGHANews Vol 5, No 4, February 15, 1989, page 8
Kabul regime sends food to Tajikistan
WHEN the people of Kabul were facing severe food shortages the communist regime of Najibullah sent food aid to the victims of Armenia and Tajikistan earthquakes in the Soviet Union, radio of the regime reported on February 4.
Five tons of dry fruits and other food stuff were sent to the victims of the Tajikistan earthquake.
Earlier the regime, had announced sending a plane-load $200,000 worth of relief good to the victims of the Armenia earthquake.
The relief goods included nuts, dry fruits and woolen products,
Kabul, the capital of the country which is under control of the regime is facing food shortages.
Reports reaching Peshawar talk of large queues in front of bakeries.
Report of looting bread delivery trucks and some shops has also been repented.
The regime put the blame of the food shortages on the Mujahideen who according to the regime, block the roads and confiscate food stuff.
It is ironic to see that a country as devastated as Afghanistan shall try to help a Super Power . "Pleasing the Soviets" is the game played by the regime in Kabul.
Soviets accused of sowing new mines
A UN investigation panel has accused the Soviet Union of sowing new land mines as it began to withdraw last summer.
In a report to the UN Economic and Social Council the investigators said, Soviets had sown from 5 to 30 million land mines in Afghanistan, most of which were anti-personnel planted in civilian areas.
A UN rehabilitation team has started to train Afghan refugees in mine-clearing operations in Pakistan.
More than 3 million Afghan refugees live in Pakistan. Land mines planted by the Soviets are blocking refugee's return to their country.
The Soviet Union has refused to provide maps of the mine fields.
UN sends food, drug to Kabul
THE UN has decided to said emergency food and medical supplies to Kabul. UN Coordinator of Humanitarian and Economic Assistance in relation to Afghanistan arrived Pakistan on February five to organize the airlift of about 400 tons of food and medicine to KabuL
Prince Sadruddin also held talks with Pakistani leaders to discuss with them the problems of refugees repatriation.
UN has planned a three-staged assistance program. Theses are giving emergency food assistance, repatriation of refugees and reconstruction of the country.
Prince Sadruddin met with Mujahideen leaders and asked them to permit airlift of emergency food and medical supplies to Kabul which was accepting by the Mujahideen leader on humanitarian grounds.
The Mujahideen are worried that food assistance should not be carried in such a manner and scale to prolong the life of the regime.
Similar concerns have also been expressed by British and French governments.
Earlier the prime Minister of the regime had asked for emergency food supplies to Kabul and other towns which are besieged by the Mujahideen.
All western countries have closed their embassies in Kabul for security reasons. The remaining embassies have decreased the number of their staff and have sent out the families of the remaining staff.
Kabul regime has accused western countries of promoting fear by withdrawing their diplomats.
UN has been facing problems in finding charter planes to take supplies to Kabul.
The crew of an Egyptian cargo aircraft refused to fly to Kabul due to security problems.
Finally an Ethiopian Airlines took the first consignment of supplies to Kabul on February 10. The UN has planned nine flights to Kabul from Pakistan.
UN officials have said that the food will be distributed among the vulnerable groups. The Mujahideen think that regime will distribute the food among its supports and will use it for propaganda purposes.
Prof. Rabbani asks UN to condemn Soviets massacre of civilians
THE Jami’at leader has called the Soviet offensive in Salang and Panjshir a massacre of innocent civilians.
In message sent to the UN General Secretary Prof. Rabbani said that Soviet killed 600 innocent civilians and injured more than one thousand in Salang in eme day.
He said that the pretext that the attack was carried out to open the road for food convoys was totally false. "The Mujahideen never closed the road for food convoys and withdrawing Soviet troops." Prof. Rabbani said.
The Mujahideen leader said that food shortages in Kabul was used by the Soviets as a cover for their atrocities.
Prof. Rabbani asked the Secretary General not only to condemn die crime but also to put pressure on the Soviets to stop this type action.
He said that die Afghan people had suffered a lot and would have been very sad if they continued to suffer while the world was jubilant over the Soviet
troop withdrawal.
Prof. Rabbani also has sent similar message to the head of states and governments of friendly countries.
Alliance sends food to Jalalabad
THE Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen have sent40 Lames of flour, dry milk, edible oil, medicine and other essential supplies to the people in and around Klald»dil£pmrintialcaitial of Ningadiar province.
The Mujahideen brought Toikham-Jalalabad road undo'control some weeks ago.
At the same time the Mujahideen cut the Kabul-Jalalabadroad. As a result of continued figfr-ing and road blocks food dxmages became a problem fanhe popManin and around Jalalabad dty.
To alleviate the difficulties of the people the Supreme Council cf the Alliance derided to send food assistance to the people which was distributed fee by the local Mujahideen commatieis.