    AFGHANJ&gS________YflLJLi______MQJJ5______1/8/1 SL&fe..-PA.CJELM
 After that big tie they kept quite for almost two years and now they have opened their dirty mouth again .
 All this is done to decieve world opinion and show that they are putting their enemies on trial. Telling big lies and repeating them is the way of life of Communists. But the big lies of the Soviets do not now live long.
                                   MHISIIR-Sliu A STRONGHOLD
 On July 18, the Muslim, a daily paper published in Islamabad , wrote about the puppet regime's funny drama of trying Commander Masood and Commander Panah in absence. It added: "Commander Ahmad Shah Masood now stationed in, Iakhar lost the battle for control of the Panjshir last year".
 Every body who reads the Muslim understands that it gives a lot of weight to Soviet propaganda . But what is said after quoting the puppet regime is totally wrong and baseless.
 Panjshir is still a stronghold of Mujahideen, Last year the Mujahideen won a big victory by capturing a 500 men garrison of the puppets with very little casualties. NowAhere are more than 10,000 Soviet -puppet troops bogged down in 5 garrisons who do not control more than 15 families (the total population of Panjshir is 80 to 100 thousand).
 We do not know about any battle which Masood has lost and the Muslim is talking about. The point that Masood is stationed in Takhar is also wrong and based on lack of information. Masood started his struggle in 1979 with 12 men, now he commands thousands of people in a big region which includes 5 provinces . In this type of war a commander like Masood can not have a permanent presence in one place, He moves around to avoid enemy attempts against his life and to organize his Mujahideen.
 It is true that he has been lately in Takhar, but he is not permanently based there. He went there to convene the big meetings of the commanders to coordinate their activities, Masood is stronger than before and Panjshir is still a stronghold of Afghan Mujahideen.
                                        CHANGE IS NECESSARY
 Emergency humanitarian aid for the war-affected Afghans inside Afghanistan is necessary. Without such an aid a big number of people die or leave the country. There are funds but delivered to some Volunteer organization who only give it where they can go. This is an irresponsible way. When we say emergency, the people can not wait for the arrival of the person from such an organization.
 For example the food situation in. the West, North -West and some other parts of Afghanistan is very critical. Any time Mujahideen approached such organizations, they did not help because their representatives can not go.