AFGHANews Vol 7, No 8, April 15, 1991., page Q
Amnesty International called on the Kabul regime on Ma&h 22 to end the torture of prisoners and to open detention centers to international inspection, Reuter reported.
The London-based human rights organization said it had reports that the regime State Security Ministry, known by its Persian acronym WAD, had held hundreds of political prisoners without charge or trial for up to nine years in interrogation centers and prisons.
"They are reportedly denied access to legal counsel and family visits. They are subject to systematic torture and ill-treatment and are held under conditions that fail to meet the UN standard minimum rules for the treatment of prisoners," Amnesty said.
Amnesty’s report on torture and long-term detention without trial said
political prisoners were held in isolation cells during an initial period of interrogation, often lasting several months, and were routinely subjected to torture.
"Cells are repeatedly never cleaned;, there is poor ventilation and prisoners are infected with skin diseases due to lack of proper sanitation," the report said.
Amnesty called on the the Kabul regime to "clearly and publicly inform all officials involved in the custody, interrogation and treatment of prisoners that any act of torture will not be tolerated"
It also called for Afghan detention centers-to be opened to "full and regular inspection by independent international humanitarian organizations."
Afghans celebrate New Year in Paris
Mehrabuddin Mastan
Afghan refugees in France celebrated the Afghan New Year on March 23 in Pans. In the gathering, organized by the Jami'at Islami office there, more than 250 Afghans participated
The gathering opened with a recitation from the Holy Quran, and speakers read papers and poems to welcome the holy month of Ramadhan and the new Afghan year. One of the speakers promoted increased contacts between Afghan refugees in France. After offering evening prayer and serving food, Daud Mir, the France representative of Jami'at, talked about the meeting of the Council of Commanders which Ahmad Shah Masood had attended. A video interview of Masood recorded during his recent trip to Pakistan, was also shown and viewed with great interest.
Convening such meetings is very useful because it brings Afghans closer together and keeps them informed of the situation in Afghanistan.
There are about 2,000 Afghans living in different cities in France. Most of them are young students.
Afghans living in France have played an active role in support of Jehad Some of them even took part in the armed struggle against the Russian invaders. Three prominent Afghan refugees living in France lost their lives waging Jehad against the Russian invaders:
•Habib Rostam, killed in 1983 in Hazarajat
•Sayyed Burhanuddin, the Deputy Head of Jami'at office in France, killed in 1987 in Nahrin, Baghlan.
•Dr. Shah Mohammad Barzgar, killed in 1989 in Kandahar.
Prof. Rabbani urges Mujahideen to unify
The Mujahideen's great victory at Khost, which coincided with the anniversary of Islam's first major victory in Badr, gave the lie to propaganda that a military solution to the Afghanistan problem was impossible, said Prof. Rabbani in a meeting held in Peshawar on April 7.
Prof. Rabbani congratulated the Mujahideen on the liberation of Khost and predicted a new enthusiasm among the Mujahideen in other parts of Afghanistan for the intensification of Jehad against the Kabul regime. "God willing, the world will witness major military gains by the Mujahideen in the near future," he said.
Prof. Rabbani called disunity among Mujahideen "a chronic disease" which affected everyone. He added that a distinction should be made, however, as to who is responsible for disunity and who is working for unity. He noted that cooperation was a must for solving the Afghan problem.
Jami'at leader said: "Differences of opinion are a natural thing. But, there are numerous common points among the Mujahideen. We must seek common ground."
‘Help us publish
ATg'tfMlfWs!
TCcase send your donations to the fodowiny account number.
yEtfXD Account (Afo. 735-37 “Habib ‘Bank.Ltd {Tehkfd‘Ba(a, “Peshawar (Pakistan