Vol 8, No 18 & 19	October	1,1992
Cleanup operation restores confidence in government
The cleanup operation to force ir- operation is showing itself inythe lives forces of the Defense Ministry either responsible armed groups to leave the of the ordinary people. Most shops for political reasons or lack of control city of Kabul which was postponed due have re-opened and the streets of Kabul over their armed groups. Under these to Hezb's rocket attack, was restarted are now full of people. There is also a circumstances a tough approach to on September 2. The operation was considerable improvement in function- solve the problem could have created launched by the Mujahideen under the ing of the government offices.	even more problems. As the security
Ministry of Defense.	The.	security situation was particu- situation deteriorated, the political or-
A few days before the start of the larly unfavorable for launching the lat- ganizations realized that their further operation, forces loyal to the Defense est round of cleanup operation. resistance to.the cleanup operation Ministry were seen taking positions at Robbery, kidnapping for ransom, theft, would create a situation which would all main intersections in the city. The car-lifting and harrassment of women endanger their own existence, start of the operation was announced had become common. Many tanks and The success of the Defense by radio. A communique of the armored cars were driven at high speed Ministry in repulsing Hikmatyar’s at-Defense Ministry asked" unauthorized in busy streets to frighten rival armed tack on Kabul consolidated the posi-armed groups to leave the city and groups and ordinary people. This situa- tion of the government and restored the move to the bases and security belts tion changed the attitude of the people confidence of the people in the Defense designated for them. The carrying of towards the government and created Ministery. This success was very effec-unaiithorized weapons within the capi- doubt about its ability to correct mat- tive in making the cleanup operation a tal was banned.	ters. It also provided ammuntion for success.
To meet the security needs of the Hikmatyar’s propaganda machine. The While the cleanup operation con-Mujahideen leaders, each party was is- continuation of such a situation could tinued, Ittihad of Prof Sayyaf and Hezb sued 250 licences for light weapons, have proved very	Wahdat clashed with each other on
Ranking government officials were dangerous to survival of the September ,17. This was their third also allowed to carry a certain number Islamic government.	clash since the establishment of the
of weapons for their security. Hezb Several factors contributed to the Islamic government in Kabul in late Islami of Hikmatyar was excluded success of the cleanup operation. The April. They made use of heavy rockets from the list because that party was in security forces had gained more infor- and artillery against each other, arms against the government.	mation about the irresponsible armed A peace committee was formed to
The first phase of the cleanup op- bands in various parts of the city - their arrange a ceasefire between them. The eration covered seven districts in the strength, location and affiliation with Leadership Council which includes the center, north and east of the city.	political parties. Intelligence, informa- leaders of the two warring Taction
The people had many misgivings tion showed that a number of profes- asked the defense ministry to send its about the seriousness of the operation sional criminals had came to Kabul troops to District No. 5, the scene of because previous operations had not from different parts of the country. the latest round of fighting, and asked beeri effective. When the security fore- Some of these bands had no affiliation the two parties to withdraw their forces es of the Defense ministry knocked out with any Mujahideen organization or from the area. On September 20 around a tank which did not obey an order to recognized military groups. But they 800 troops belonging to the Defense stop at a check-point, people realized used the name of some organizations or Ministry entered the area, that this operation was different from some influential figures to protect To supress crime, a court sen-previous ones.	themselves. A considerable number of tended three criminals to death. They
The operation continued without these criminals were arrested and were were hanged in the center of town on any major problems improving the se- handed over the judicial authorities for September 7. The hanging was curity situation in the city dramatically, trial.	watched by thousands of people. They
Everyone was surprised by its success The uncooperative attitude of some approved the tough action against the and the absence of any significant re- Mujahideen parties with the Defense criminals who had raped women, killed sistance. Credit for this success goes to Ministry was the main reason of failure people and stolen private and public the defense minister for choosing the of the previous attempts to improve the property.
right time and the correct tactics. He security situation. Negotiations to con- On September 30, other criminals had apparently drawn his lessons from vince these groups to leave the city found guilty of gang rape, murder and the failure of previous operations. took a long time. The leaders of parties
The positive result of .the cleanup did not fully cooperate with the security (jTo page (3)