AFGHANews VolS, Noll, June 1,1989, page ©
Eight-Pary Coalition rejects Vorontsov's offer for separate deal
ban-based Mujahideen resumed talks with the Soviet Union in Tehran but no progress was made.
Yuri Vorontsov, Soviet deputy foreign minister and Ambassador to Kabul went to Tehran on May 11, to talk about the situation in Afghanistan with Iranian leaders and Mujahideen leaders based in Tehran.
The Mujahideen delegation which met with Vorontsov was headed by Ali Jan Zahidi, spokesman of the eight parly Alliance.
Sources close to the Mujahideen say that Vorontsov repeated what he had offered last December when he held talks with the ban-based parties in Tehran for die first time.
He proposed autonomy for Hazarajat in return for making peace with the Najib government Vorontsov also invited the Mujahideen leaders to travel to Moscow for further talks. Both proposals were rejected by the Mujahideen.
The first dialogue between the Mujahideen and the Soviets was held in Tail, Saudi Arabia, in November last year. The second round of talks was held in December in Islamabad. Talks did not continue because the Sovietsinsisted on participation of the communist regime in the future government The Soviets held separate talks with ban-based parties in Tehran and Vorontsov met with the ex-king, Mohammad Zahir, in Rome.
Karim Khalili, who heads a delega-
Sopervisory Council of the North has expressed hope that the Interim Government of the Mujahideen will hold general elections in the country within six months of its formation in late February.
This view has been expressed in a circulation of the Supervisory Council printed inside Afghanistan. The paper say that the present Interim Government's shortcomings can be corrected only by participation of Afghans from aU sections of society through general elections.
The paper lists the short-comings of the interim government as: -Exclusion of ban-based parties -Absence of the majority of field commanders in the consultative Shoora which approved the government
don of ban-based parties in negotiation with the interim government said that die Soviets insisted on the meeting and the eight-party coalition accepted it Holding separate talks with ban-based Mujahideen is considered a divisive tactic by the Soviets. In the second round of talks in Islamabad the representatives of both Alliances, Peshawar-based and Tehran-based, sat together in die negotiations with die Soviets.
In his talks with banian leaders Vorontsov accused Pakistan, USA and Saudi Arabia of interfering m the affairs of Afghanistan.
The banian- foreign minister said that his country opposed interference in the affairs of Afghanistan. He said that Afghans were capable of forming their own government, without outside pressure.
The Iranian president, Sayed Ali Khaminei, urged Vorontsov to stop helping the communist regime in KabuL
. Pakistan foreign minister Sahib ZadaYaqoub Khan has stressed theneed for resumption of talks between the Mujahideen and the Soviet Union to find a solution to Afghan problem.
The Soviets have shown readiness to resume talks but have said that they will hold taflcs after getting permission bom the communist regime in KabuL The Mujahideen rule out the possibility of any form of power sharing with communist regime in Kabul.
-Equal representation for all the seven parties in die consultative Shoora and the Interim Government while the influence of the parties inside Afghanistan varies considerably.
The paper says that the Supervisory council of the North endorses the interim government for die sake of the unity of die Mujahideen but feels the need to broaden its base and give representation to the parties according to their strength and popularity.
According to the paper this could be achieved through general elections something that the government has promised to the people of Afghanistan.
The paper describes the interim government as a step .to the higher' stage of general elections in Afghanistan,
Commander Ismail Khan of Herat has sent a message to Jan&'at headquarters in Peshawar rejecting the rumors of a compromise between the Mujahideen in Herat and the communist forces. The following is the translation cf his letter:
Dear brothers in Islam Assalamu Alaikum Wa Rahmamllah.
The unremitting struggle and unprecedented resistance of the heroic Afghan Muslim Mujahideen is quite obvious to the people of die regime and the world. They stood unflinchingly against a superpower and its agents for eleven years.
At these critical historical moments when the criminal Russians and their atheistic puppet regime face military and political defeat, they have intensified their dirty games to create division among Mujahideen, to defame Mujahideen leaders, and to confuse worid public opinion. They allege compromise and conciliation to the determined and committed commanders of the Islamic revolution-commanders such as heroic Ahmad Shah Masood, heroic Abdul Haq and other believing and faithful warriors. They make allegations arid spread rumors. Unfortunately some international media broadcast their allegations without investigation.
Though the puppet regime's desperate attempts will prove futile and will not save it from the ultimate downfall clarification of few points in regard toon position seems necessary
While writing this letter at 4:00 p.m. of Wednesday May 24, 1989, the enemy's severe, barbaric air and artillery bombardment of our strongholds continues. Fighting is going on in different parts of Herat. The puppet regime's supply routes from Torghundi to Herat and bom Herat to Kandahar have been blocked.
Therefore, we strongly reject and condemn any allegation and accusation of hypocritical compromises and diversionary methods. We assure you all that in the same way we began our Islamic revolution in reliance upon God Almighty, we will end our struggle with the help of God, with the slogan, "Either victory or martyrdom."
SCN asks IGA to hold elections