RFOHRN NEHS UOL.III, HO.10,        15/5/1907,PHOE 10
6- Jami'at Islami Afghanistan appreciates the moral and political support of the governments and peoples of Pakistan and the Islamic republic of Iran as veil as other Muslim and peace loving countries vho support our cause and provide humanitarian assistance to Afghan refugees. But it has announced time and again that no other country can decide for the Afghan people and that Jami'at will not accept a decision which is not in accordance with the Mujahideens' views or in which they do not directly lake part in its decision-making process
   Whosoever of gou sees an evil action, let him change it mith his hand; and if he is not able to do so, then mith his tongue; and if he is not able to do so, then mith his heart- and that is the meakest of faith.
                                                       Prophet Mohammad (p.b.u.h.)
                                            PLOT TO KILL NAJIB I
The puppet regime has claimed that Pakistan and America were planning to kill Najib, but the attempt was foiled by the security forces of the regime.
Anything which happens against the regime in Afghanistan is attributed to the involvement of the foreign forces. The popular uprising of the people of Afghanistan against the Soviet invasion and their seven years of struggle against the occupation of their homeland is branded by the Soviets and their puppets as foreign intervention. This accusation is also part of the puppet regimes propaganda to deceive public opinion about what is really happening in Afghanistan.
Najib. the head of the puppet regime, is a Soviet agent, a criminal who served as the head of KhAD for several years and has killed and tortured thousands of innocent people of Afghanistan He deserves to be killed to save the people of Afghanistan from his evil designs He deserves such a punishment by any standard But as for as the Mutahideen are concerned, his presence or absence does not bring great changes in the situation inside Afghanistan because the real masters are the Soviets and the role of the puppets is no more than translating the Soviet policies. Puppet leaders are figure heads and the true power is in the band of the Soviets ,
It is believed that the internal problems inside the puppets party could be the main cause of an attempt on Najib s life. Factional disputes inside the party, between Khaiq and farcham factions, have got the form of a chronic disease which the Soviet are unable to heal. Different parts of the government organization are divided between the two factions. After the removal of Babrak from power, a new faction which sympathizes with Babrak and opposes Najib has been created too There is a strong possibility that these factional disputes are a reason for the plot and the puppets as usual want to cover it up by blaming foreigners.
******
  ****