AFGHANews Vol 6, No 17, September 1,1990, page ©
From Mujahideen press inside Afghanistan
The July 6 issue of Shoora, a fortnightly paper published by the Cultural Committee of the Supervisory Council (S.C.) inside Afghanistan, has many interesting articles. Here is the summery of some die articles:
Eid Celebrated
Eid was celebrated all over. Afghanistan on July 2. The people of Taliqan offered Eid prayers in the central mosque of the city. Ulamas in their sermons threw light on the importance of Eid and the philosophy of sacrificing animals.
Dr. Ahmad Mushahid, the Governor of Takhar, and Fahim, the Deputy Head of the Political Committee of the S.C. addressed the gathering and informed the people about about the political and military situation in the country.
In a message on this occasion. Commander Masood praised the people of Afghanistan for the sacrifices they have given to defend their freedom and religion.	.
The message said the Kabul regime, who had served the Soviets in the past, wanted to do so in the future under a different name, but the Mujahideen will not allow this to happen.
The message s^id, despite attempts by a specific political leader to create rifts between the Mujahideen, efforts to unit the Resistance are making progress: The formation of the Commanders Council is a step towards that end. "Without achieving unity, victory will not be gained," the message said. Masood hoped that the Mujahideen will succeed in establishing an Islamic government in Afghanistan, something that people have fought for.
Changes in PDPA
Commenting on the PDPA’s second Congress the paper said that the attempt by Najib to blame the government's predecessors for all the crimes committed by the PDPA was not new. Babrak blamed Hafizullah Amin and Amin blamed Taraki for the killing of thousands of people. Taraki had blamed President Daud for all die mess in Afghanistan. .This was in line with
New Soviet rulers have always blamed their predecessors after they woe dead.
' The editorial says Najib has been involved in atrocities’against the people since the Soviet invasion. He was
the Head of KHAD and then the loader of the puppet regime'. How could he not be responsible for what happened during his rule?
The paper says the admissions made in the second Congress of the PDPA are enough to disqualify that party and its leaders from playing any role in the future political life of Afghans.
Najibullah faces Parcham coup
The paper reveals that a group of Parchami officers staged a coup against Najib on May 12. The coup started with the firing of eight rockets on the Ministry of Defense at 1:30 p.m.
The coup, however, was crushed quickly. Important army officers like General Abdur Rauf Baigi, General Nabi Azimi, General Arif Sakhra, Qa'dir Mia Khail, General Mohammad Esa and General Azimiiddin were aiirestied.
The coup was organized by Mohmood Baryalai, Babrak's brother. Najib who was still suffering from the scars of Tanai's coup, found it difficult to publicise what had happened or keep the culprits behind the bars. Some of those involved were removed from their posts and others were sent abroad for what was called medical treatment General Baigi was sent to the Soviet Union. Arif Sakhra, the Deputy Head of WAD and the Political Head of that ministry, was sent to Czechoslovakia after being relieved from his duties.
Differences within the Parcham faction began with the replacement of Karmal by Najib in 1984. Karmal was the first leader of the regime installed in power immediately after the Soviet invasion in December 1979.
The paper said Khalqis have expressed their displeasure with the changes within the party.
These differences have caused uncertainty within die armed forces of the Nqjib stationed in and around Kabul.
SC helps farmers
The Reconstruction Committee of die Cmtr^2bne(d'theS.Chasdistributed7^10kil-ograms of improved, seed and .56^93 kilograms (dfotiliza'tothefaniiminl^jst^andKtqnsa.
Engineer Ammuuddin Salik told the Shoora (hat his committee has helped die farmers in two villages in Panjshir to prepare their fields for cultivation
He said, 12,428 animals have been protect-ed against different diseases by vets of his S.C. Reconstruction Committee in Panjshir and Kapisa.
Russian MP
from first page
in Afghanistan?
A. It was admitted publicly that we committed a dime in Afghanistan. It was called a " criminal mistake." But unfortunately we are speaking only about die past Nothing is said about the continuous supply of arms to the Najib regime.
Our people also do not know what a grave Crime we have committed in the past. They do not know, for example, that one and half piillion Afghans were killed and the country was totally destroyed by our bombs and rockets.	_
There is a need for the Russian people to know the depth of the Red Army's crimes in Afghanistan. I am trying my best, but it is not enough. If a Mujahideen delegation comes to Moscow and talks to the media and tells the Russian people the facts, it will be very effective. If people know the facts, they will be ashamed, /old they will try to find a way to do something.
Q: Is it possible for a Mujahideen delegation to go to Russia and use the TV and the press, to inform the Russians about the facts?
A: Yes, Yeltsin has extended an invitation to the Mujahideen to send a delegation to Moscow to meet him.
The Mujahideen's trip to Moscow will be a big event. The TV and press will cover it with great interest. It is not prohibited any more to talk about Russian crimes. My critical speeches in die parliament are broadcasted on TV and published in newspapers.
Plane hijacked
Eleven Soviet citizens who had hijacked a Soviet plane to Karachi handed themselves over to the Pakistani authorities on August 20.
The TU-145 passenger plane ' was brought to Karachi with 29 passengers and nine crew. The plane was on a domestic flight between twa Siberian cities when it was hijacked. A group of prisoners from a labour camp were among the passengers of the plane. They disarmed their guards and took control of the plane. No one was hurt in the incident.
The Soviet authorities have asked for the extradition of the hijackers.
fKdp us puBCtsk
(Please sendyour donations to the fottotving account numBer:
nS&PD Account,(JS(p. 735-37 .. (HaBiB QankjLtd. VefkglWaPa, (Peshawar (Pakistan