AFGHANews Vol7, No 5, March 1, 1991, page @
Cold war around arch
The Kabul regime has launch a media campaign to blame the Vfujahideen for the partial destruction of Taq-i-Zafar, a historical arch in Paghman District some 25 kilometers west of Kabul.
The arch was built in the memory of the struggle of Afghans against Great Britain,which resulted in gaining l ull independence of Afghanistan in 1919.
The Mujahideen have no reason to destroy a historical monument. It was indiscriminate bombing and shelling by the Soviets and regime troops which caused the destruction. Thc arch was located in an area controlled by the Mujahideen, a frequent target of re-jjime rocket and artillery fire. It is easy to verify this fact because the side of the arch facing Kabul is damaged while the side facing the mountain is intact
This also could be seen from the pictures published in the regime papers because in the background of the arch one can see the mountain.
Paghman, a resort town outside Kabul, has been the scene of many battles between the Mujahideen and Soviet-regime forces in the past 10 years. Not only the arch but most of the villages are razed to the ground by aerial bombing and artillery fire.
A British journalist who was taken recently by the Kabul regime to Paghman reported that regime officers accompanying him shook their heads in dismay as they passed the ruined
Taq-i-Zafar in Paghaman
forms but because of his successful campaign for the liberation of Afghanistan. His arch in Paghman is a sign of the Afghans' victory over colonialism.
On the contrary, the Kabul regime is not the leader of the war against the outsiders, but a product of foreign intervention and has acted as the guide of the Red Army against its own people for more than 10 long years.
This analogy paints an ugly picture of the Afghan resistance which is absolutely incorrect. Most of the resistance groups not only struggle for independence but are fighting for a better way of life. Of course they do not accept an outside model for the development of their country, neither from East nor from West.
The communists in Afghanistan, however, have a common ground with the late king. Amanullah made the
|f Infee officers fff||l|ghan militia have been executed at Spin Boldak, an Afghan border town, where they Were given the death sentence by an Afghan Mujahideen court.
Shamsuddin,45, the commander of the Jami'at military college, died of a heart attack on February 20. He was buned in Ningarhar Province He had played an active role in the historic uprising of Herat in March 1979.
jj; j
Four Afghan refugees were killed and eight were injured, three seriously, in a blast which took place in a petrol store in the Afghan refrj gee camp of Girdi Jangal, Chagfu area of Baluchistan.	?-
mistake of trying to impose unaccepta-building blaming the Mujahideen for. reforms on the people, which might the destruction. The journalist said
these hypocritical moves were not convincing because one could see bomb craters beside the ruined buildings and it was obvious that regime and Soviets were using air force in the war, not the Mujahideen.
There is a historical reason why the communist regime highlights the destruction of the Paghman arch. The arch, built by King Amanullah, is considered by communists a sign of the victory of Afghans over Western colonialism . Amanullah later was dethroned in a popular uprising prompted by his radical modernization program. The communists in Kabul always try to promote themselves as the followers of the late king and brand their opponents . as reactionaries opposing progress.
But the analogy fails to take into account the opposition of Afghans to the outside domination. Amanullah is famous, not because of his radical re-
have been well-intended. The communists repeated the same mistake half a century later. Amanullah's mistake caused some turmoil in the country but what he did cannot be compared with crimes the communist committed against their people and country. Communists in Afghanistan are true followers of Stalin, not Amanullah or any figure in our history.
Attack on Aid bodies
From page (4) ments against the aid community helps the enemy's anti- Mujahideen propaganda.
The Kabul regime also is interested in creating problems for Pakistan, host to more than three million refugees.
Jami'at hopes that the Pakistani police will succeed in identifying the culprits and bringing them to justice. The Mujahideen parties should help the process however they can.

The Government of Canada has donated about $23,000 for relief to the victims of the earthquake in
The funds will be provided to the thated Nations
Cooordinator for humanitarian and economic assistance programs relating to Afghanistan (T.INOCA) for its
emergency relief efforts. 4
..
Najib, the head of the Kabul regime. has said he has offered to hs over control of Kandahar to the supporters of the king lo build confidence between Rabid and the former monarch.	|
He did not e&borate what was the result of his offer retd to whom
A Soviet qpgned in Kabul ii^ipraaiy 23 on the occasion of TOfhanniveisary of the signing of a Soviet-Afghan
/ ♦•it .	■
Abomb exploded in the offices of die Swedish Committee for Afghanistan on February 25, injuring oue iiEficer. The tomb was planter tinder the chair rrf liyyed Muqeem Shah, the Conuititiee’s service manager. He was an Afghan holding an
A few days before, a band gte
nade was

no casualties.
the office o. but caused
iisf