  AFGHAN MEWS__YQL.JI___iiCL-23_l/12ZJLiM—PAGE S
 Noting the increased concern of the international community over the continued and serious sufferings of the Afghan people and over the magnitude of social and ecomomic problems posed to Pakistan and Iran by the presence on their soil of millions of Afghan refugees, amd the continuing increase in their number.
 Deeply conscious of the urgent need for a political solution of the grave situation in respect of Afghanistan.
 Taking note of the report of the Secretary General and the status of the diplomatic process initiated by him.
 Recognizing the importance of the initiatives of the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the efforts of the movement of non-aligned countries for a political solution of the situation in respect of Afghanistan.                              (
 1- Reiterates that the preservation of the sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and non-alligned character of Afghanistan is essential for a peaceful
 solution of the problems.
 2- Reaffirming the right of the Afghan people to determine their own form of government and to choose their economic, political and social system free from outside intervention subversion, coercion or constraint of any kind whatsoever.
 3- Calls for the immediate withdrawal of the foreign troops from Afghanistan.
 4- Call upon all parties concerned to work for the urgent achievement of political solution, in accordance with the provisions of the present resolution, and the creation of the necessary conditions which would enable the Afghan refugees to. return voluntarily to their homes in safety and honour.
 5- Renews its appeal to all States and national and international organizations to continue to extend humanitarian relief assistance with a view to alleviating the hardship of the Afghan refugees in co-ordination with the United nations High
 commissioner for Refugees.
 6- Expresses its appreciation and support for the efforts and constructive steps taken by the Secretary General, especially the diplomatic process initiated by him. in the search for a solution to the problem.
 7- Requests the Secretary General to continue those efforts with a view to promoting a political solution in accordance with the provisions of the present resolution, and the exploration of securing guarantees for the non-use of force or threat of force, against the political independence, sovereignty, territorial intergrity and security of all neighbouring States, on the basis of mutual guarantees and strict non-interference in each other's internal affairs and with full regard for the principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
 S- Requests the Secretary General to keep member States and the Security Council concurrently informed of progress towards the implementation of the present resolution and to submit to member States a report on the situation at the earliest appropriate opportunity
 9- Decide to include in the provisional agenda of its 42nd session the item entitled "the situation in Afghanistan and its implications for international peace and security
                                 AFGHANS RALLY IN NEW YORK
 On November 6th, a large number of Afghans demonstrated in front of the UN building to protest against the occupation of their country by the Soviets. The demonstration took place after the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution calling for the withdrawal of foreign ( Soviet) troops from Afghanistan.