flRSHRN NEWS WOL.III, HO.4, 15/2/ 190? PAGE 5
 Fightings in Herat. Kandahar and Nangarhar has continued. Bomb explosion and rocket firing in Kabul has taken place. A big convoy was attacked in Qaaiai-i-Surkh in Jabalseraj and set on fire. Jets and helicopters have been shot dovn and several key figures of the National Fatherland Front were assassinated and finally the Soviets and their puppets launched offensives in Paktia and Kandahar and ridiculed their own ceasefire. Violation of the Pakistani space by the Soviet airforce and the sabotage activities against civilian targets inside Pakistan has continued.
 A big meeting of the commanders of Badakhshan, Perwan, Kapisa. Takhar, Baghlan, Kundoz, Mazar and Paghman took place in the North They supported the position of the Alliance on ceasefire and rejected the puppets ceasefire and their so-called National
 Reconciliation program.
 The Soviet-dictated ceasefire was rejected by the Mujahideen and was broken by the Soviet and their puppets.
 Now is the middle of the Afghan winter and military activities in this time of the year are usually low After the announcement of the ceasefire the level of the fighting has increased considerably.
 Another sign of increased activities is the influx of refugees to the neighbouring countries Contrary to what the enemy says a lot of people made use of a short relaxation on check points to take their families out. All this is dis-appointing for the Soviets and their puppets who were thinking of massive return of refugees and desertion of Mujahideen
 All of this proves that
  People of Afghanistan are more aware of enemy designs.
 -They want the withdrawal of Soviet forces.
 -There is no room for co-excistence with the communists who have created so much trouble for the country
 -The only acceptable solution is establishment of an Islamic government with a non-
 aligned policy.
 -All half way solutions will complicate the situation more and do not lead to peace.
 L_
 It must have been a good opportunity for the Soviets to guage the popularity of their puppets, they must have reached the conclusion that peace can not come in the presence of the their forces which is the only positive element for the survival of the