Vol 4, No 16
! Soviet POWs refuse to return home
THE Islamic Unity of | Afghan Mujahideen (IUAM)
\ has offered to release two j Soviet war prisoners through | the International Set! Cross a® j a gesture of goodwill arid to assess the Soviet response in the future.
The initiative ft) release the two prisoners who belong to jami at was taken by the party s leader Prof, Rah haul who explained that the prisoners would he handed over to the Red Cross, through the IUAM and they are then free to choose between returning home (Russia) or | going wherever they prefere. i But in a two hour meeting with the 1CRC delegation on the 5th August and a subsequent press conference for the world media on the 11th August inside Afghanistan, the two prisoners strongly refused to | return to Russia or seek | asylum anywhere else The j Russians are Hat s to their promise, They will execute us if we return as it was the case for eight other soldiers who were killed in Russia on their j return through the ICRC, j claimed the two prisoners.,
! The names of the two
j prisoners are El ham and | Qasim who are respectively | 22 and 23 years aid. They are j nationals of the Republic of 1 Uzbekistan descending from i Muslim families. The former
. j
I__	_____
| joined the Mujahideen in [ 1955 in Paghman district j and the latter in Qarabagh ! district of Kabul province j early in 1956, i In response to a question regarding their defection to the Mujahideen, they said; j "fa Russia we were told that | we would be sect to | Afghanistan to defend our neighbour and frieadly country la fighting against Chinese. Americans and forces of Imperialism, When we came to Afghanistan we realized that it was the Muslim people ol Afghanistan, and not the Chinese and Americans, who were fighting against the Russian invasion and their installed regime. So we joined the Mujahideen/’ ft is to he remarked that the decision to release prisoners was taken a few days af ter a spokesman for the Soviet Foreign Ministry announced the readiness of that country for direct negotiation with the : Mujahideen on the release of ■ Soviet prisoners of war.
After the Geneva accords, the Soviet authorities launched an extensive unsuccessful campaign for the release of their prisoners following a number of different ways including through UN organizations. This move
August 15.19SS
by the Mujahideen is considered a suitable gesture ] to pave the way for direct j talks based m which both	j
sides slight reach an	(
agreement on the prisoners	j
exchange in addition to	I
discussing otiyr issues11 as j thought by Prof, Rabbam,	j
Although the two prisoners do not warn to return to the Soviet Union as did six other prisoners who j were released, to the 1CRC but prefered to go to the USA	1
despite an offer of general	I
amnesty by the Soviets, the	j
decision certainly	j
encourages and affects the	j
trend of the issue, creating	\
gome kind of flexibility an	\
the part of the Soviets who	j
have already stated that they	|
would spare no ef iarts	j
regarding release of their	j
prisoners,	j
nsaBi»nHisMiaaHn»HWMnBnHnB j
Regime’s j editor loins [ Mujahideen |
THE Assistant Editor of	j
the daily ‘Haqiqat Ingilab Sawr' ’’reality of Sawr Revolution' published by the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan	|
recently defected and joined	j
;. the Mujahideen In the	j
I’ Panjshif valley,
Abdul Latlf Pedram is ! believed to have been a well-known writer and a noted figure in the intellectual circle of Kabul.
\ The mentioned daily was j published since the j Communist take-over in
I Afghanistan sad Is one of the ©any Innueatlai papers In the party’s organ.	1