::r
 AFGHAN* *..™
      A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMFAT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                  Post Office Boi No. 264, Peshawar- Pakistan.
                    Vol. II, No. 14 . 15 / 7 / 19*6.
                      A BIG POLITICAL STEP
                                                                    •
    The official visit of the delegation representing the Islamic Alliance of Mujahideen of Afghanistan from U.S.A., France and Saudi Arabia was a great political step towards the recognition of -the Alliance and a major political initiative.
    The war in Afghanistan has both military and political dimensions. The two develop together, lack of attention towards one or the other would have disastrous consequences for the outcome of the struggle. From the military point of view the Mujahideen have made a lot of progress. They are now better organized, better coordinated and have improved their knowledge about ehemy tactics and weapons.
    They control more than *0% of the land and a major portion of the population. The world has started to take the Mujahideen seriously in the military field and even the Soviets have called the war of Afghanistan a "bleeding wound”. Soviets on different occasion have dealt with the Mujahideen in exchange of prisoners.
    On the political front more is needed to be done. The Soviets have been condemned by a majority in the U.N. General Assembly. They have been condemned in several conferences convened by the O.I.C. and non-aligned countries. This is a positive sign for the resistance.
    Despite this, the puppet regime is still a member of the United Nations and non-aligned movement. It has embassies in a lot of non-Communist countries and these countries have a diplomatic presence in Kabul. The puppet regime has trade relationships with a lot of countries.
    The Resistance, on the other hand, is not recognized by any country as the sole representative of the people of Afghanistan and no country deals with it directly.
     After 7 years of war, after loosing 500.000 martyrs (U.N. Human Rights Commission report) and 5 million refugees, we are still not a part of the political process which deals with the problem of Afghanistan. This is a sad thing and it must be corrected. We have to be recognized as the sole representative of the people of Afghanistan. The Resistance must get the seat of Afghanistan in the O.I.C., U.N. and non-aligned countries movement. We must
d a