AFGHANews Vol 6, No 4, February 15,1990, page ©
Supervisory council ready to shoulder principle burden of war: com.Masood
Talking to AFP (French problems.
News Agency) correspondent on the eve of the anniversary of the Soviet withdrawal. Commander Masood expressed his views on important issues concerning the Afghan resistance. Following is the full text of his interview:
On The Government
Afghan Interim
The present government of Mujahideen has had an obligation to provide a context for an elected and stronger government. If in the future government, the Mujahideen and commanders have an effective participation, then it will be successful, otherwise tliere will be no success.
OnZahirShah
The king left Afghanistan a long time ago. He has had no presence in the war. He has no knowledge of the current situation. He is a very old man. He is not familiar with the new generation. His age will not permit him to be actively involved. Therefore the king cannot play an active role in Afghan politics.
On The Strength Of The Kabul Regime
Contrary to the impression created, the regime has been defeated in its national reconciliation policy. The coup of General Tanay has shown clearly that Najib has failed in bringing unity amongst the Parcham and Khalq factions. The regime has not been able to launch offensive operations but fights a defensive war. It has not been able to capture any place. I think the strength of the regime lies in our disunity. If the Mujahideen solve their internal problems and follow a reasonable strategy, the regime certainly will fall.
In order to achieve this goal the Supervisory Council is ready militarily. If an atmosphere of understanding is created among the Mujahideen, the Supervisory Council will shoulder a considerable portion of the burden of the war.
On Hizb Islami
We have always announced our readiness to solve the internal problems of the resistance through negotiations. We have repeatedly said that we are ready to talk to anybody to solve our
On Relations Neighboring Countries
With
/
The people of Afghanistan have fought in order to establish an Islamic republic, hence today and tomorrow Islam will have a pivotal role in Afghanistan. Our relation with all our Muslim neighboring states and other countries which have no evil designs against Afghanistan and have helped Afghans during Jehad naturally will be good. The relation of the future Afghan government with the Soviets will depend on the rationality of the Russians themselves. If the Russians cease supporting the puppet regime, and stop further bloodshed and abandon their, colonial goals in our country, relations between the two countries will improve. Otherwise, the bitter memories of their invasion and their support for the hated Kabul regime will be remembered by our people for a long time.
On The Struggle Central Asian Muslims
Of
We want that all subjugated Soviet states achieve their freedom. Unity of the occupied Islamic states (in Central Asia) with Afghanistan depend on future conditions.
On Ethnic Afghanistan
Issue In
We want the establishment of an Islamic government in which all the Afghan nationalities participate actively. In such a government there will not be a question of one nationality ruling over another.
On The The PDPA
Future Role Of
To prevent bloodshed amongst Afghans, the Mujahideen have declared an amnesty. Except for a limited (high-ranking) members of the PDPA, all others can join the nation.
But we can not accept the PDPA as a political party and can not include them in the process* of our future political destiny even if the war continues.

February 7,1990
iriA \a
• y
Area/Tem. in C°	H	L
. Kabul	3	-l ;
ranin 17mm, snow 11cm		
North Salang	-5	-7 .
rain 4mm, snow 203cm		
Jabulseraj	4	1
snow 15 cm		
Chekhcharan	6	-2
Shebirghan	3	1
rain 4mm		
Mazar-i-Sharif	6	2\
rain 5mm.		
Kunduz	4	1
Toorghondi	-1	-2
rain 5mm, snow 8cm		
Herat	3	-3
Lashkargah	17	13
Farah	14	7
Zaranj	14	4
Kandahar	16	10
rain 20mm *		
Jalalabad	11	9
Shindand	7	1
S, ,, ' ■		
		
		
9{tCp ns publish
ATgfHZtyzvs!
tPlease send your donations to the following account number:
Account 7{p. 735-37 9la6i6 ‘Bank.Ltd.
Tehkal ‘Bala, (Peshawar tPakistan