TO 1 HelL jwit L1988, Pegs 6
Opinion by Mohammad Es'haq
i i
Resistance's course of action in post Geneva phase
| OH May the | aymfesHe withdraw*! ®£
! Seviet (rasps star ted, U | marked a aew please in | (be Afghans struggle ! sitfe ensuing mew \ Aifittry aad paHUsal j requirements..
I The new phase is a testing I ground for the Mujahideen*'
I military and political j ah Hines in a situation which j differs from me past.
| The l ast pa! 1 ri oaf move | wiU be Mr, Cordova?- s 1 attempt, to a-private capacity, j to bring und erstand ing among | Afghans in forming a ! broad-based government, i Cordores formulated his I plan in an article published ) in the Washington Pose, The | mam point of .his plans are ! the formation of a Leva jirga I in which the Mujahideen, the I puppet regime and Zaftir Shah | win take part. These people | should vork out a j bread-based government, i	White the Resistance is
| utianimous in rejecting any i deal with the Communists, it 1 wS U def ini teiy be a 1 video an I the formation of aLoyajirga j and giving a role to the j ex-ting;
|	Mr, Cor doves'‘s mission,
j wii! create more problems for | the Resistance rather than ^ solving any, His efforts will j renew debate about the | usef u i ness of the Loya j i rga ! and the role of the ex-icing,
| This will create tension j between the Alliance, j	The signing ef the Geneva
j accord killed any possibility j of solving the Afghan Issue j through peaceful means. The | Soviets are nee willing to back j off from supporting the \ puppet regime The only ) political solution the Soviets ! see is through the ’National
Recent i i imm\ announced by the regime in 19$?, i . hi the absence of a | willingness on the Soviets { pan to discuss any solution j other than 1 National [ Reconciliation, any move i based on the formula envisaged by Cordovez is useless and a waste of time, Cordova? is wrong when he j says shat the issue of forming a government in Kabul, in : which the puppet regime is a principal part, is an internal issue. The regime is a product-I of the Soviet Union's invasion and a symbol of its interference in the affairs of Afghanistan, Signing the Geneva accord cannot : legitimise the puppet regime in Kabul,
[ The Resistance still j believes that the Soviet Union [ is a principal side in the [ conf lict in Afghanistan, That j country Is responsible for the creation of the present situation and has neither ! stopped killing Afghans nor I shown an intern ion to terminate interference in the affairs of Afghanistan, The j pledge to support the regime \ politically, financially and [ militarily is clear evidence of i the key role of the Soviet Union in Afghanistan, j More than that the Soviets I toe said that they will keep \ thousands of their advisors in | Afghanistan after they toe withdrawn their troops,
Under these 1 circumstances the theory m j convening a Leys jirga and j the rede that the ex-king | should play, are similar to j the demands same peopleware making during the Geneva associations.
The Afghan Resistance was told that if it did mi
form a government or propose an alternative it would have bees bad for its i image.The Resistance	j
proposed alternatives box it was not taken seriously and the Geneva accord was signed behind its back.
Any move based on the Geneva accord to a similar nature. The outcome of Cor dove?'s move Is obvious.
He will fail and will make	j
the Afghan Resistance a	j
scapegoat for his failure.	I
The only option left to	j
Afghans is a military	j
approach, Sn the same way	j
that they started their	j
struggle with empty hands,	\
now they will have to	j
continue until the total	j
victory,	j
The armed struggle of	i
the Afghan people is nine	j
years old but the new phase j of It has its own character	!
which is different from the past. The Resistance is facias the new task of attack lag large mi I itary	j
bases and capturing big cities.
The Mujahideen have earned enough experience in fighting. They are now better equipped and mere organized than the past.
They have the support of the population. There are positive points which put	j
the Resistance in a favorable position.
But the experience of the Resistance in the War is limited to mobile warfare, something which was a suitable way of fighting	j
against a strong enemy.	J
After the Soviet's	j
withdrawal the regime will be weaker and the Mujahideen have to launch their attacks on large towns,