AFGHANews Vol 5, No 13, July 1, 1989, page ©
News
From page (2)
issue
seized:
66 Kalashnikov rifles
2	PK Machine-guns
3	Mortars
1 RPG-7 Rocket Launcher
6 Radio set
Some ammunition
Commander Alam Khan who led the above operations reports that his Mujahideen shot down two enemy jets. One of the enemy jets hit with a Stinger missile crashed in the northern part of the city of Mazar on June 14
The other crashed in Shoor Bulaq area on June 16.
The enemy launched four attacks to recapture the Shadian posts liberated by the Mujahideen but failed in the face of tough resistance put up by the Mujahideen.
Badghis province
Three hundred armed militiamen headed by Ghulam Farrooq joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Qadis district in Badghis province on June 10.
The Mujahideen led by Commander Dost Mohammad have laid a siege around Qala-i-Naw, the provincial capital of Badghis since June 15.
Dost Mohammad took the place of Naik Mohammad Khan who was killed in fighting some weeks ago.
The Kabul regime has partial control of Qala-i-Naw, the provincial capital and of the districts of Qadis, Murghab and Kushk-i-Kohna.
The districts of Jawand and Ghormach are controlled by the Mujahideen.
Baghlan province
On June 17, the Mujahideen from Jami'at ambushed an enemy convoy destroying two tanks and killing four soldiers in Surkh Kotal, about 10 kilometer from Pul-i-Khumri on the road to Mazar.
On June 21, an enemy truck was captured along with three soldiers. Both attacks were launched by Commander Shir Ali.
Logar province
The Mujahideen shot down an enemy helicopter one June 8.
The helicopter which was on a combat mission was hit by machinge-gun fire and crashed in Haron Khail of Babos.
Iranian speaker, Ali Akber Hashimi Rafsanjani, ended his three-day official tour of the Soviet Union during which bilateral issues and the problem of Afghanistan was discussed with the Soviet officials.
Rafsanjani arrived to Moscow on June 20 at the head of a high-ranking Iranian delegation. He held two rounds of talks with Gorbachev.
Gorbachev called the trip a turning point in the history of the two countries' relationship. In the joint declaration issued at the end of the visit, they asked for a non-aligned, independent Afghanistan which has good relationships with all its neighbors.
Before Rafsanjani's trip. Foreign Minister Ali Akber Velayati paid a short visit to Pakistan to discuss the Afghan situation with Pakistani leaders. He also met with Afghan leaders including Prof. Rabbani to get their views on the situation.
The Soviet news agency, TASS, has said that there were close or identical views between the Soviet and Iranian leaders on the Afghan issue. TASS probably was refering to the same languages the two sides used when they expressed their stand on Afghanistan. But each side's interpretation of these terms is different.
One thing that brings the two sides close is their worries about the West’s influence in Afghanistan. Thd Soviet Union plays on Iran's worries about alleged American involvement in Afghanistan. .
But the Mujahideen leaders have repeatedly described their independent position. They have clearly stated that they want an independent Afghanistan having good relations with all those countries which respect, the indepen-
dence of Afghanistairand refrain from interfering in its affairs.
Iranian leaders have repeatedly assured the Mujahideen of their support in their struggle against the Soviet-backed regime in Kabul. They have told the Mujahideen leaders that they will never compromise on their principled position on the Afghan issue.
Iran hosts more than two million Afghan refugees. Mujahideen Shia parties also have their headquarters in Iran. Iran did not participate in the Geneva negotiations on the ground that the Mujahideen opposed them. But Iran has maintained diplomatic relations with the puppet regime in Kabul. The Mujahideen were not allowed in most cases to pass their arm supplies through Iran.
Arafat
From page (1)
the international forums in which PLO has had a voice it has opposed the Mujahideen and supported die regime and the Soviet invaders.	•
2-His formula envisages a kind of power-sharing between the Mujahideen and the regime. The Mujahideen have rejected any such arrangement.
When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan in 1979, they made use of the good offices of Arafat to convince Iran that the invasion was a police action against foreign forces who were the common enemy of Iran and the Soviet Union. Bani Sadie the then president of Iran disclosed Arafat's mission on Iranian television.