   ABfflAEJMTS VOL.JI NO. 15      1ZS/1986   PAGE 11
 Mujahideen in these areas are more concerned about the well-being of their people than any body from outside . Mujahideen in these ares are better organized , so they can distribute the aid and provide necessary papers for accounting.
 We hope the condition of the presence of a foriegner in any kind of humanitarian mission should be changed. It would be a big immoral gesture if emergency aid is stopped because some person can not go to the area. Some organizations have softened their rules but others are withholding funds because of this unreasonable condition.
                                      1MLMLCAJUL THEM MUJABlimi
 Cordovez is a mediator in the proximity talks in Geneva between the puppet regime and the government of Pakistan . So far he seems to give more weight to the Soviet invaders arguments than the argument of a nation who is struggling
 for its survival.
 He has close contacts with the puppet regime's representatives in New York. In ihe last few months when some one tried to talk the puppet regime's envoy in the U N he was successful because Cordovez arranged it.
 Cordovez told the man, when you meet Mr. Zarif. the Democratic Republic Representative, do not call their opponents Mujahideen Call them counterrevolutionaries, otherwise Mr. Zarif becomes angry".
 This showrs the attitude of a person that U.N has choosen to seek a solution to the problem of Afghanistan. How can the Afghan nation trust such a person who has not tried to understand them and even call them counter-revolutionaries to please the puppets.
 Cordovez must apologize from a nation which has given 500,000 (U.N report on human violation) martyrs to save its freedom. Counter-revolutionaries are those who invade , kill, burn, massacre and steal even if they are prominent members of U.N . Counter-revolutionaries are those who have come to power by the Red Army and need several years of protection from the people of Afghanistan.
 I hope Mr. Cordovez starts to correct his thinking about our people and our cause . He has been a witness of 123 votes in our favor and no counterrevolutionary lias been so much popular so far in the world.