AFGHANews Vol6, No 15, August 1, 1990, page 0
1 &•' 1*0;'Bait; M&i j8jjjBjjajjjjjjjjjijji8aafe^	-£V iewsfff
Editorial 							■	
UN repatriation plan unrealistic
The decision to send Afghan refugees home is premature. It will cause tremendous humanitarian and political problems for the people of Afghanistan. The UN repatriation program is based on assumptions which contradict the realities inside Afghanistan.
It is based on the theory that the level of fighting has decreased in Afghanistan which permits the return of the refugees. Fighting between the regime and the Mujahideen might not be such as to justify expectations of the fall of big cities but it is enough to keep the situation unsafe for large numbers of refugees.
The Kabul regime makes use of its air force and long-range rockets against the liberated areas. There is no guarantee that the areas where the refugees return will not become the target of regime attacks. The UN itself admits the presence of millions of mines in Afghanistan and its demining program has so far had no more than symbolic significance..
The program for the repatriation is based on the information sent by the UN officials based in Afghanistan. There are good reasons to doubt the accuracy and impartiality of these reports. UN officials working for Operation Salaam exaggerate the normalcy of the situation. In theory and practice Operation Salaam has been favoring the Kabul regime. Since the Kabul regime finds the return of the refugees politically useful, the reports filed by Sadruddin's offices in Afghanistan cannot be trusted.
Similarly the conclusions drawn by the UN about the returning refugees are wrong. Most of those have returned are those who were not registered , and were not entitled to humanitarian assistance by UN organizations in the camps. Registration of refugees stopped some time ago. These people were forced to leave because of conditions in the camps, not because they felt safe, as UN officials claim.
The UN also ignores the displacement of the people inside Afghanistan as a result of war and also the continuing influx of refugees to neighboring countries . A lot of people still come out of Afghanistan.
A question arises why is the UN so keen on the return of refugees despite all these problems?
The UN is facing shortages of funds for the refugees. Return of the refugees reduces pressure on their shrinking budget. The UN program of repatriation is also affected by the political motives of using humanitarian assistance to bring the two sides of the conflict closer together and pave the road for national reconciliation in Afghanistan. Sadruddin has expressed such views on malty occasions in the past and the return of the refugees is thought to help this process.
There are reasons which make the voluntary nature of the repatriation doubtful. Although the UN and Pakistan are not forcing the refugees to leave, UN officials have been involved in persuading people in the camps and promising UN assistance for refugees inside Afghanistan.
A refugee living in Baluchistan complained to VO A that UN officials had promised to fly them to Afghanistan but now even trucks were not available to take them.
The UN officials gives little assistance to the returning refugees but promise a long list of services by the UN in the areas to which they return. For a simple refugee it might give a hope of a peaceful life in his homeland but in reality the UN organizations are not well prepared to fulfill their promises. A good example of such exaggerated claims is the UN demining program. They might have defused a few hundred mines out of several million but in their speeches they declare some provinces as free of mines.
Turn to page (7)
Indians detain Khalqi leader
Assadullah Sarwary, a prominent Khalqi figure, has been arrested by the Indian police. The Kabul regime has asked for his .extradition.'
Sarwari was the head of the secret police during Amin's reign and the regime ambassador to South Yemen and left his post before the abortive Tanai coup of March 5. He was on his way to Kabul supposedly to take part in the coup but could not get there on time.
Rumor says that regime agents snatched his passport in Delhi airpost when he was about to fly to Kabul. Indian authorities confirmed that Sarwari was arrested and charged with lacking proper documents.
The Kabul regime has said that Sarwari was involved in the coup and he should be sent to Kabul for interrogation. The Indian authorities have not decided what to do with him.
Najib told repprters that out of 600 people arrested in connection with Tanai's coup, 160 have been released, the rest are facing trial.
Saudi Supports Afghan Jehad
Saudi Arabia continues to support the Mujahideen struggle to secure their right of self-dtermination.
This was stated by Prof. Rabbani, Jam'at leader, in an interview with MIDIA.
Prof. Rabbani said that the Saudi Government sent a message to Muslim pilgrims expressing support for the Mujahideen and describing the Afghan cause as an important issue for the Muslim world. The message expressed the hope that all Muslim countries should continue to support the Mujahideen.
Saudi Arabia has given substantial moral and material support to the Mujahideen and is the only country to have cut off diplomatic relations with the Kabul regime. It has recognized the Interim Government of the Afghan Mujahideen.
Soviet killed in Kabul
A Soviet expert was killed and two others were injured by s Mujahideen rocket which hit the cultu ral office of the Soviet Union in Kabul on July 22, TASS reported from Moscow. The building was partially damaged.