AFGHAN NEWS VOL,111. NO. 15&16.   15/8/87  PAGE 10
                                              JAMIAT OFFICEAL VISITS CANADA AND U.S.A
Dr. Nauibullah Lafraie, the head of the Political Committee of Jamiat islami Afghanistan, visited Canada from June 24 to July 12 at the invitation of Human Concern International, a Canadian non-governmental organization which provides humanitarian assistance to the Afghan Refugees.
During his trip. Dr. Lafraie participated in ISNA Conference in Saint Catherines and the Fourth International Hajj Conference in Toronto. He also makde a short trip to San Jose, CA, to speak at another INSA Conference there.
                                                                                            <
In addition to Toranto, Mr. Lafraie visited Ottawa, the Capital of Canada, Vancouver. Edmonton, and Winipeg. He gave lectures about the recent Russian political maneouvres, Russian atrocities and inhuman acts against the innocent people, and about the Afghan Refugee situation in Pakistan and Iran.
NaJibullah Lafraie also had interviews with the Canadian n news media. His TV interviews included Canada AM and Reflections on Islam and his Radio interviews Included the Morning-side of CBC (nationwide), and CJOR and CENW (Vancouver). He also talked to the editor of the Crescent International and the reporters of the Globe and Mail, Toronto Star. Toronto Sun, Ottawa Citizen. Vancouver Sun, Edmonton Sun as well as to the reporters of several small Islamic publications in the U.S.A. and England who had participated iri the conferences.
During his trip to Canada, Dr. Lafraie also met with some officials at the External Affairs and some members of the Parliament and visited some non-governmental organizations which are active lin provideing humanitarian assistance to the Third world countries.
On his way back to Peshawar, Dr. Lafraie stayed 'for a week in Washingto D.C. He visited the Jamiat Islami Representative office there and met with some members <Jf Congress and the staff of the Committee for Free Afghanistan. He also held a press conference and had interviews with VOA’s Dari Serviece arid current Affairs program.
                                           APOLOGY
Due to unavoidable circumstances, we were not able to publish the First of August issue of Afghan News. We exted our apologies to our readers.