Vol 5, No 13	July	1,	1989
US, Soviet Union to resume talks on Afghanistan
Jami'at leader sympathizes with Bulgarian Turks
The Jami'at leader has called the expulsion of a large number ethnic Turks from Bulgaria an inhuman practice of a dictatorial state and has asked for imposition of world-wide sanctions against that country.
Prof. Rabbani told Afghanews that ill-treatment of Muslims in Bulgaria was a violation of human rights and a continuation of Stalinist policies in a communist country.
He said that in dictatorial states like Bulgaria there is no religious and cultural freedom for people.
Prof. Rabbani called on the UN, non-aligned countries and the OIC to impose economic and political sanctions on Bulgaria for the expulsion of thousand Muslims from their homes.
He added that Islamic countries have a special responsibility regarding this tragedy.
The president of the State of Palestine, Yasser Arafat, discussed with Pakistan leaders ways of ending the Afghan conflict peacefully, when he arrived for a one-day visit to Islamabad on June 24.
He held a short meeting with Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, the foreign minister of the interim government of the Mujahideen. During this’ meeting Arafat showed his desire to help in bringing peace to Afghanistan. Arafat called the war between the Mujahideen and the communist regime conflict between two brothers.
Yasser Arafat had reached Islamabad from Moscow and his initiative, observers believe, must have the
The United States of America and the Soviet Union will resume discussion about finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan very soon. ;
The announcement came after Benazir’s trip to the US. Pakistan and the United States have said that they will emphasize finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
A US spokesman said in Washington that the reason for an 18-month suspension of talks with the Soviets was to prevent suspicions that the superpowers will try to arrange a secret deal during the withdrawal.
It is believed that the US decision to talk to the Soviets is due to the slow pace of military developments in Afghanistan.
The American government has come under pressure from some congressional circles to review its Afghan policy. These circles do not like to see American military aid is given to the
blessings of Moscow.
Arafat will send his personal representative to Kabul to talk to the regime about his role as a mediator between the adversaries in the conflict.
Arafat's formula may include formation of a coalition government with the participation of the Mujahideen and the regime which will supervise general elections. He may propose the ex-king as the head of the transitional government
Arafat's initiative is facing two major problems:
1- Arafat is known among Afghans as a pro-regime and pro-Soviet politician who have close relations with the communist regime in Kabul. In all
Turn to page ( 3 )
Mujahideen following the Soviet troop withdrawal.
The reason given by US official for the resumption of talks between the superpowers is not convincing to some Afghans because the superpowers could still be accused of arranging a secret deal behind die back of Afghans.
The Mujahideen worries about talks between the Soviet Union and the United States are based on past experiences. The United States and the Soviet Union signed the Geneva accord behind the back of the Mujahideen.
The Mujahideen were not fully informed about the Geneva negotiations at different stages and the treaty was signed despite the public and private opposition by the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen are afraid that the resumption of talks could lead to a similar deal.
The United States special envoy to the Mujahideen government, Mr. Peter Thompson took his oath of office on June 21.
American officials say that the appointment of a special envoy to the Mujahideen is a sign for continued support to the resistance.
The US government have not extended formal recongnition to the interim government of the Mujahideen. The US government has kept its diplomatic relations with the puppet regime in Kabul despite calling it illegitimate.
The US closed its embassy in Kabul before the Soviet troops left Afghanistan, but the decision was taken oft security grounds. The Kabul regime's embassy in Washington is still open and the demand by some congressmen to close the regime embassy has not been accepted by the Bush administration.
The Kabul regime terms sending a special envoy to the Mujahideen as interference in the affairs of Afghanistan and a breach of the Geneva accords.
Arafat's peace formula as controversial as his role