AFGHANews Vol 5, No 9, May 1,1989, page Q
Communists close Engineering Faculy of Kabul University
The Soviets closed the Faculty of Engineering at Kabul University as part of their campaign to Sovietize Afghan educational institutions.
This was stated by Dr. Ghulam Ahmad Nasir, the ex-professor of the Faculty of Engineering who now lives as a refugee in Peshawar.
The Faculty of Engineering of Kabul University was distinguished by high academic standards and anti-communist students.
The Faculty started with 200 student and 14 academic staff, eight American and six Afghan, in 1962.
In 1964 it moved to its new building which was provided with well-equipped laboratories. At the beginning, the faculty was training students in general engineering but later it was divided into electrical engineering. Mechanical engineering, civil engineering, agricultural engineering and architecture departments.
It was an English medium school which used American books supplemented with notes provided by the staff.
At the beginning most of the engineering students came from the Afghan Institute of Technology but later students from other high schools also enrolled in the Faculty.
The Faculty of Engineering also accepted students from India, Iran and Middle East countries.
When Kabul University was politicized the Faculty of Engineering was not an exception. The majority of the students of die faculty were in favor of the Islamic movement This was one of the reasons which made communists very angry and wanted to get rid of it
The Soviets resented the academic relations between Kabul University and Western educational institutions, especially with those in the United States.
The Soviet Union offered assistance for the establishment of several Technical Schools in Afghanistan. The foundation stone of Kabul Polytechnic Institute was laid by Breznev in 1958. In 1964 the institute started to
function.
The pro-Soviet elements in the Ministry of Education started to push the idea of the merger of the Polytechnic and the faculty of Engineering. But a study by the experts showed that the two institutions had different purposes and no duplication was taking place.
When Daud came to power with the help of communist elements in 1973 the idea of the merger was raised again. The Faculty staff tried hard to convince Daud not to endorse the idea of the merger. Finally Daud decided to leave the two to function separately. But Daud asked the Faculty staff to increase the number of students from 400 to 2000 without increasing the number of staff and accommodation. It was an indirect way of subverting the faculty.
After the Soviet invasion the communists were in full control. They announced the merger of the Faculty of Engineering into the Polytechnic in 1982. Fresh students were accepted and in 1986 the Faculty was closed. ,
According to Dr-Nasir the building of the faculty was given to the military and its valuable facilities were taken away, probably to the Soviet Union.
A prestigious faculty which was serving the country by training young engineers was martyred by the. Soviet invaders.
In reply to a question about reviving the faculty after liberation of the country from the communists' rule. Dr. Nasir said that with the help of International Rescue Committee a faculty of Engineering based on the same lines as the Faculty of Engineering of Kabul University has been set up in Peshawar which has 40 students in two classes. Once the country is liberated these students will shift to the faculty.
He believed all the staff of the faculty who have escaped die persecution of the communists, will return and help the revival of the faculty.
Dr. Nasir, 47, a native of Ghazni province is working as the technical consultant of the Danish Committee, a relief organization helping war affected Afghans.
4*4*4*
Editorial
From page (4)
try. The news of uprising in one area inspire^ the people in other areas and the process took the form of a chain-
reaction.
Despite the Mujahideen being ill-armed and not organized, the regime was defeated in many fronts and its army units deserted.
The Soviet leaders, underestimating the danger, invaded Afghanistan to rescue their friends and save their influence. For more than nine years the war against the invaders continued.
Afghans paid a high price for their freedom which can serve as a good example for the rest of the world.
During the ten years of war the communist regime played the role of a collaborator to the invading forces. Its leadership changed with orders from Moscow but the party role remained the same.
Soviet Union's attempt to impose the regime on the people of Afghanistan utterly failed. With the withdrawal of troops their interference in Afghanistan did not come to an end, nor did their desire to control this country through a puppet regime.
The regime has changed its propaganda tone. It shows that it wants to live in peace with its opponents and share power with them. It poses as a national party which believes in relig ion. It also tries to show that it has learned from its mistakes and is ready to correct them.
A close look at the nature of the regime and the coded language it uses shows that it has not changed.
Afghans say: "It is wrong; to test someone who has been tested". Ten years of war, the invasion of Afghanistan, destruction of 75% towns and villages and loss of a million lives are clear tests of their criminal attitude towards people and of their loyalty to the Soviets.
The Regime celebrated the 11th anniversary of the April r;oup Delegations of pro-Soviet parties from outside Afghanistan were invited. Afghans hope that this will be the last show of this tragic drama in Afghanistan.
The circle around the regime is tighthening gradually. The final attack against it will start in the near future. While the resistance is ready to forgive individuals within the regime if they repent their past, it is not ready to tolerate the survival of the PDPA as a political organization in Afghanistan. The party of traitors has no place in a free and Islamic Afghanistan.'