AFGHANews Vol7, No 7, April 1,1991, page ©
Haqqani denies Pak troops' involvement in Khost battle
Commando- Jalaluddin Haqani has categorically. rejected allegations by Kabul and Moscow that foreign troops and advisors were helping the Mujahideen in the Khost operation, MEDIA reported.
He added that such allegations were not new. The Russians and the Kabul regime have always used such allegation as an excuse for their failures. He invited the UN Secretary General's Representatives and journalists to travel to Khost and ascertain the validity of the Kabul claims.
Mawlawi Haqani said that all the strategic points around Khost - in the east, souths southeast and southwest, earlier controlled by the communists, have been conquered by the Mujahideen. The regime troops had retreated to the town. No planes can land in Khost.
Haqani called upon the people of Khost, who have been used as human shields by the Kabul regime for the past 12 years, to make use of the Mujahideen's general amnesty and join to the Mujahideen.
In response to a question about the Mujahideen's unity, Haqani said that the Khost operation is directed by a 23-member committee which is comprised of representatives of the seven main Mujahideen organizations. He said: "Despite the launching of 40
SCUD missiles, heavy air bombardment, and thousands of mines, the Mujahideen have been steadily advancing towards the city during the past 10 days. They have driven away regime forces from the first and second security belts around the besieged city."
On the significance of the Khost battle, Mawlawi Haqani said that Khost's liberation will bring a change in the present so-called "stalemate" situation and herald a new season of Mujahideen activities and achievements. It will dampen the morale of the puppet regime troops . Liberation of Khost will also lead to the siege of Gardez, the provincial capital of Paktia, and take the Mujahideen a step closer to Kabul. Lasdy, he said, the liberation of Khost will take thousands of people out from under the oppression and tyranny of the Kabul puppet regime.
Haqani called upon the Mujahideen leaders and commanders to show practical compassion and sympathy with those who surrender to the Mujahideen in accordance with general amnesty offered by the Mujahideen. He also requested the Mujahideen commanders to intensify their operations against those regime forces which do not surrender.
• ••
This interview took place on March 23 , ten days after the start of the latest operation on the Khost front.
Najib woos neighbors, US
The Kabul regime has offered economic and cultural incentives to improve relations with neighboring countries and the USA.
In his New Year's message, Najibullah called for economic cooperation between Pakistan and Afghanistan. He said Pakistan could benefit from trade to USSR and Europe through Afghanistan and that Pakistani businessmen could invest in Afghanistan.
Showing happiness about improvement of relations with Iran, he said relations between Tehran and Kabul had entered a dynamic phase. He proposed formation of a ministerial committee for exploring fields of cooperation between the two countries.
Najib noted the opening of a Turkish language department at Kabul University as a step towards greater cooperation with Turkey.
Describing the present Chinese policy on Afghanistan as "realistic," Najib asked for the resumption of Chinese as-
sistance to Kabul.
He appealed for the United States to resume its cooperation with his government. He said cooperation in the field of narcotics control and education could be the first step. He invited a group of US congressmen to visit Kabul.
Najib said nothing about Kabul's relation with Delhi, because he is aware of Afghans' anti-Delhi feelings because of India's pro-regime policies.
About relations with Soviet Union, he said his government was trying to strengthen them to the level of pre-war links. This is a clear admission of the strong anti-Russian feelings of Afghans generated due to the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan.
To patronize his western audience, Najib talked in length about steps taken to improve human rights situation in Afghanistan. He promised formation of "National Human Rights Commission" and a committee to improve prisons and prisoners' conditions.
From Page (3)
suiting me, in the way ignorant people do, when they ran out of arguments. He swore. I answered back. He grabbed me by the collar. 1 took him by the beard. The other guests moved away, laughing.
To cut a long story short, we went to the Islamic judge, for him to give a ruling on the respective merits of the rich and the poor.
After hearing our arguments, the judge lowered his head in contemplation. Finally he looked up and addressed me: "You who praised the rich and damned the poor, know that after wine drinking comes a hang-over, that royal pearls are guarded by man-eating sharks, and that the pleasures of this world are followed by the terrors of death. Just as you find dry wood and musk-willow together in a garden, so among the rich, you find generous and grateful as well as ungenerous and ungrateful; among the poor, you find both the patient and humble as well as those who impatiently grumble. The wealthy who live simply like the poor and the poor who live fearlessly like the rich are both close to God. Among the rich, the best man is he who helps the poor; among the poor, the best man is he who does not pester the rich. Whoever trusts in God, God will surely come to his help."
The judge then turned from me to the dervish and said:’’You are right. Many rich people care only about themselves and forget both God the Creator and their fellow men His creatures. They are not grateful for what they have received nor do they have any desire to help those less fortunate than themselves. I’m alright Jack, is their motto. 8Even if the whole world should starve, I have enough to eat! Why should a duck fear water? Yes, but they are not the only ones. There also those who are hospitable and generous, who have a good name in this world and the hope of forgiveness in the next."
The judgeVthus reconciled us and made us exchange the kiss of peace. Finally he said: “Accept your fate! Do not complain! Or else, you'll be in everlasting, pain. If yoii are wealthy in this world, enjoy yourself, give generously, then enter Heaven's dqmain.”
~ ■ ■ -------------------\— ~ •