 AFGHAN”NEWS
 No.... 17
.... 31-1 Q-.8.5 ..

  A Soviet high-ranking military ofl'icer was killed while his tank
      travelling from Anawa to Rukha was ambushedThe -tank was dest-royed and 8 Soviet soldiers who were accompanying the officer .were killed. Four AK-fk guns were captured in the ambush.        , '
  In the last three weeks, the Soviets launched a simultaneous attack against the Mujahideen of Shakar Dara, Estalif,Ashaba,Ghorband,North and .South Sklangs, Larkhab and Andarab. They made use of heliborn. troops in>these attacks and now they have retreated from all these areas-
                        REPORT FROM HERAT PROVINCE
  8-10-85 ----- - --
  Mujahideen attacked Shinadand Airport. Thirty tanks were destroyed .and ‘ the hospital building was damaged. The report does not say any thing about how the attack took place. This could be the work of a long-range rocket attack of sabotage.
  15;; 10-85
  Mujahideen from Jamiat in Herat attacked government posts in Sendajan and Ghoorat district. Thirty five enemy soldiers were killed and 25 others were captured with their weapons. Mujahideen also captured a Khad agent during the operation. Two Mujahids were martyred.
                              PARWAN PROVINCE
  8-9-85                                '
  Mujahideen from Jamiat exploded a bomb in Charikar city. As ..a result of this 6 communists were killed and 3 others injured. One government tfubk was destroyed and a building which housed the communist party office was damaged.
  14-g-85
  4 bomb, was planted near the Father Land Front and communication buildings in the center of Charikar city. Twenty Communists were killed in the explosion and the two buildings were damaged.
  16-9-85
  A time bomb was planted in one of the restaurants where members of Khad were meeting. In the explosions seven communists were killed and ten others were wounded.
  28-9-85
  A bomb exploded in the police headquarters in Charikar city (40 km. North of Kabul). The bomb was planted by Mujahideen from Jamiat . A large number of policemen and their officers were killed and the building was completely destroyed.
     The Communist Coup and then the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan has changed the peaceful atmosphere of educational institutions, the most important being university of Kabul,                          '