AFGHAN NEWS
VOL. II
N&ul0
15-5-193^
±=6
 2. We will use all kinds of international efforts for a peaceful solution to the Afghan issue, but under no circumstances shall bow to international pressure to agree to a solution which does not benefit our people.
 3. We openly declare that a political solution without the participation of a representative of the people of Afghanistan (Mujahideen)will not be acceptable to us and will be rejected,
 4. Any form of international guarantee, which directly or indirectly recognizes the puppet regime in Kabul now or in the future is not
    acceptable to us
 5. Since the Soviets are responsible for the present situation in Afghanistan we are not ready to accept any conditions in return for the withdrawal of the Soviet troops. We demand full compensation for material losses and for those who.have been killed as a result of the invasion.
 6. We are ready to talk to the Soviets about the unconditional and total withdrawal of their troops but we will not lay down our weapons until the last Soviet soldier has left Afghanistan.
 7. We emphasis that Soviet claims that the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan would be dangerous for them, is totally groundless and only a pretext for the pursual of their expansionist policy. We. assure all the nations of the world that we will live in peace with all nations, including the Soviet Union.
    Afghanistan, until the April coup of 1978 had norma^relations with the Soviets. We took no hostile steps to provoke them. Their invasion of Afghanistan indicates their expansionist designs to reach the Indian Ocean and the West of Asia. The Soviets bn different occasions have admitted their mistake in installing a Communist regime in Afghanistan, Gorbachev in one of his comments called Afghanistan "a bleeding wound". If the Soviets are honest they should stop their aggression and the killing of innocent people. They should not make this 'bleeding wound' deeper by continuing to send in troops.
 8. The withdrawal of Soviet troops in phases, over a long period of time is rejected by us. If they insist on this, it is a testament to their evil designs againsttthe people of Afghanistan and their intention to continue to expand inside and outside Afghanistan.
    The Soviets should withdraw their forces immediately. The people of Afghanistan are able to determine their own future government.