ATSKAKews VtH, No 12, JtNU 15,1988, Page 10
i engaged m attacks smd those people passing the mined area at night.
Pressure mines
The third type of mines used are pressure mines. The Soviets Army have extensively j used these types of mines and puppet soldiers have been using them too. These mines are buried in the ground and ‘ this make them very dangerous.
Very few metallic parts have been used in making these mines and this makes it difficult to detect them with ordinary metal detectors.
These mines have been made water-proof by giving them a rubber cover. They cm remain active for several years. Pressure and puii-wire mines are used in combination.
The enemy also has used clamor mines but the number has been small.
Seismic mines
The most sophisticated type of mines used by the Soviets are siessste mines. These mines are used by the Soviet army alone. Siesmi mines are composed of acentral unit and four mines. The central unit is attached through wire to the exploding components which are planted in an am of one to two square1 meters. An approaching object activates the contrail part, and j the central part called I ‘sensor1, explodes one of the j mines closest to the object by | sending an electrical signal.
Each exploding component | weighs about two Kgs. The I mine has a metallic case S which disintegrates into fragments when it explodes. If one of these mines in the system explodes the rest will remain active. The dust spread by the first explosion provides a further cover to the system.
Individuals hit by the seismic mines do not survive. This is due to the sitae of the mine. The Mujahideen have not found ways of defusing seismic mines. When
discovered the only way is J to hit them with bullets or destroy them by using explosives detonated fro® a distance.
Purpose of mining:
THE enemy uses anti-personnel mines for a variety of reasons ranging from defending a post, booby-trapping villages to blocking the supply routes.
One of the purposes of using mines is blocking routes used by the Mujahideen. The purpose is to make the movement of people and goods difficult. Mining for this purpose is carried out in choke-points like passes, river crossings and narrow valleys. Butterfly mines, pull-wire and pressure mines are used for these purposes.
The second purpose of mining is protection of posts from the Mujahideen's close attacks. Both the Soviets and their puppet army heavily depended on mine-fields to protect their positions.
The third purpose is to stop the soldiers from defecting to the Mujahideen. Defection is a big problem for the puppet army. Conscripted soldiers who are press-ganged Into the army are unwilling to fight. They know that the Mujahideen will treat them well if they defect.
Besides watching these unwilling soldiers with the Communist officers, a big minefield is created around them to stop their escape. A large number of soldiers have lost their lives in an attempt to cross mine fields.
The fourth purpose is a purely criminal, mining villages, mosques, fields and water channels. The purpose it | to kill and maim as many as I possible. This type of mining I takes place during an | operation or before leaving an
occupied area. The Communist forces heavily mined Barikcof and Jaji before abandoning the area. Reports from Panfshir say that the Soviets heavily mined some new areas before they left the vatley.
A further complication
MINING took place by the Soviets and the puppet army separately. Lack of coordination between the two armies and poor mapping of the mine fields has added to the complexity of the problem. It has been witnessed that some times the enemy forces entered their own mine fields because of lack of information.
In one base a supply helicopter landed on an enemy minefield and was set on fire by the explosion.
The other issue is lack of pattern in mining operation. It has been observed that individuals in the Soviet and the puppet armies have planted mines for their own protection without informing their officers.
Problems facing the Mujahideen:
• THE mined areas are so large that it is not possible to launch a successful clean-up operation, in the hot fighting zones, thousands of mines have been planted, it is difficult to give figures for the mines planted but It is believed to be millions,
® Lack of information is another obstacle. The Soviets have net provided any information about the mine Helds and the puppet regime is planting more, in the absence of maps and data It will be very