
AFGHANn 3WS
| IN THE NAME OF ALMICHTT ALLAH |
                        A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN
                                POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                                        VOL. IIL NO. 2,15/1/1967.
SOVIETS NOT HONEST
 Najib's reconciliation program and unilateral ceasefire has generated some optimism about finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan. Soviets are giving the , impression that they may withdraw their forces from Afghanistan in the near future.. Some of the Pakistani opposition parties are putting pressure on the Pakistan Government to respond in a positive way and make use of this golden (I) opportunity to . get rid of the Afghan issue.
 The question is. Are the Soviets honest in finding a political solution for the problem of Afghanistan; if so, what are the indications'of their change in policy? A close study of the Soviets leader s and their puppets' statements shows that, they have not offered something new . The old words are presented in a new package . They want the authority of the puppets and existance of Soviet influence in Afghanistan
 If one look closely at the history of Russia-Afghan conflict, clearly sees that the people of Afghanistan has rejected communist regime and foreign domination. Under the so called reconciliation program dictated by the Soviets the regime remains and Soviets domination is legalised.
 The Soviets knew very well that. Mujahideen would not accept anything less than total freedom for Afghanistan. By offering a ceasefire and formation of a broad-based government under the control of the communists they wanted to adopt a peaceful outlook and give the impression that Mujahideen are responsible for the continuation of the war.
 The time they have chosen for this propaganda compaign is of vital importance to the Soviet leadership. It is just before the Islamic summit in Kuwait. The compaign is directed to minimize the pressure on the Soviets in that conference. Mujahideen had decided to raise the question of the recognition of the resistance by OIC. This is not very pleasant for the Soviets. They want to do every thing to prevent Mujahideen from gaining such a victory. Geneva talks will be opened on Feb. 11th. Soviets wanted to send their puppets to attend the talks with a new propaganda tool. The real intention of Soviets will surface when the time table for the withdrawal of their forces will be discussed. From the situation inside the country, it seems that they can not agree on total withdrawal in a reasonable time period.
 Putting pressure on the Pakistan government from within is another purpose of the present propaganda offensive. Some leftest opposition groups and their papers are trying to say that everything in Afghanistan has become normal and Refugees can return.
 It was not surprising that Mujahideen leaders rejected the so-called reconciliation program and ceasefire and called it a ploy. However the way they did it at the beginning was not a proper one.They spoke individually, not through the current spokesman of the Alliance.Individual stands can create differences and that is what the Soviets are waiting for to exploit.
 It should be emphasized that the Mujahideen are eager to see the end of conflict in Afghanistan. Nobody on the face of the earth can pretend to desire for peace more than the people of Afghanistan themselves. But peace only returns when the cause of