AF&HANew Vol 4. So 10. May 15.1989, Pag© 2
    The posts were located around Russian and puppet i bases in Puli Alam, the Provincial capital of Logar.
The attack was launched from two flanks; from Baraki Barak and Kulangar .
   The enemy retaliated by shelling civilian targets in Baraki Barak for three days as a result of which two civilians lost tbeir lives and 23 others were wounded.
Perwan
    The Mujahideen from ,1ams at who were supported by the Mujahideen from Hezb ( Khaiis group) attacked the securtlty posts of the Bagram airbase on April five. Twelve communist soldiers were captured along with their weapons.
                                                                                                                           f
 Heimand
    Sever lighting has continued since mid-April between Mujahideen and Russian-DRA joint forces in Kajaki and Sangeen districts.
   The Russian forces, in retaliation to their loss of soldiers and a senior officer, launched aerial and ground attack on Sangeen district. Mujahideen were able to destroy 18 tanks and kill a number of enemy soldiers In the fighting.
   Mujahideen lost 52 men including Commander Pir Mohammad and 72 others were injured.
   The enemy attack was aimed at driving the       \
 Mujahideen out of Kajaki and Sangeen districts so that they could extend transmission lines from Kajaki Power Station to Lashkargah in Helmand and the city of Kandahar.
   Mujahideen also destroyed three tanks, captured ten rifles on the second of May and lost two men in the operation.
    The lighting still continues in the area and the j
  Takhar
      THE MUJAHIDEEN from Jami at captured 20 militiamen in KhewajaGhar district and seized 20 Kalashinkov rifles on April 22.
    The next day the Mujahideen from Jami at, Hezb ( Khaiis) and Ittehad attacked the enemy militia posts killing 13 militiamen and captureing 35 others. The Mujahideen captured 50 Kalashinkov rifles and two rocket launchers.
  Badakhshan
     The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured -iOO armed militiamen and killed five others in two villages of Jurat district on April 2nd and seized a great quantity of arms and ammunition.
    The attack on the villages i of Farghamoonj and Kaiw of j Jurm was led by Sayyed j Najmuddin. jamiat commander I of Wardooj and Yamgan : valleys.
    The Mujahideen seized four | Dschk. one 72mm canon, one ; BM-l and fiveGurinov j machine guns in addition to i large number of light weapons
     The Mujahideen lost four ! men and three others were ! wounded.
     Baghlan
      •Soviet troops stationed I in the town of Bano in Andarab
 left the valley me week ago.
   Two militia groups numbering more than 200 men surrendered to the Mujahideen after they lost the Soviets protection.
   The puppet regime has only one garrison in the town which has limited control. •The Mujahideen from Jami at attacked a number of enemy posts in the lower part of Andarab valley, captured one 82mm rifle . three heavy machine guns, two rocket launchers and some food staff on the fourth of April.
   Eighty seven militiamen were taken prisoner by the Mujahideen.
   The Mujahideen lost four men during the operation and (ive others were injured
 Logar
   •A number of Russian-DRA security posts have been withdrawn f rom Kalangar. Padkhwab and Mirabdat areas of Logar province on April 27.
    The areas are located three to five kilometers from the Provincial capital,
   •The Mujahideen from Jami'at led by Commander Fazlullah killed I? communist troops including eight members of KHAD. and ten Russian soldiers and-destroyed ten vehicles in an operation against 13 posts in Baraki Barsk and Kulangar areas on the second of April.