APGHANews Vot 8, No 23, December 1,1992, page Q
President visits three neighboring states
President Rabbani has paid official visits to die neighboring countries of Pakistan, Iran and Uzbekistan. The visits enabled Afghanistan to ask for assistance from its neighbors and upgrade its relations with them:
He began his visit from Pakistan on September 26 and was warmly received in Islamabad, President Rabbani informed 'President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of the military and political situation in Afghanistan and asked diem to provide assistance to the Islamic State. The Pakistani officials promised to give every possible assistance to Afghanistan. They also reiterated their full support for the legitimate government of Afghanistan and made it clear that they would not allow any group to use Pakistan’s territory for subversive activities against the Islamic State of Afghanistan. But no formal agreement was signed during the two-day visit to Islamabad.
During his stay in Islamabad, President Rabbani met with Prince Turki, the Saudi intelligence chief and speejal envoy of King Fahd.
Addressing a press conference in Islamabad, President Rabbani criticized Qazi Hussain Ahmad, the leader of Jamaat Islami of Pakistan, of involvement in activities against the Islamic State in Afghanistan.
President Rabbani flew to Tehran
cial visit to the Islamic Republic of Iran. He was received at Teheran airport by President Rafsanjani and other ranking Iranian officials.
The two .sides discussed economic and cultural cooperation between Iran and Afghanistan. Iranian agreed to give S50 million loan to Afghanistan which will be spent to provide daily needs of the people. They agreed io form a joint commissions to work out plans for cooperation in the field of transit, communication, agricultural, educations and mass media.
In Teheran, President Rabbani addressed a press conference which was attended by Iranian and foreign journalists and diplomats. He asked the foreign countries to reopen their-embassies in Kabul because the security situation had improved.
He also met with the spiritual leader of the Islamic Repuhlje of Iran, .Ayatullah Khamenei, and the Head of Iranian Majlis.
A tripartite commission from representative of Afghanistan, Iran and the UN will formed to facilitate the early return of Afghan refugees from Iran.
During his stay in Iran.Prof Rabbam received an invitation letter from President.Islam Karimov of Uzbekistan to visit Tashkent The letter was handed ‘ over to him by Uzbekistan’s Foreign Minister who was visiting Iran-
President Rabbani reached Tashkent on October 13. He was re ceived in Tashkent airport by President Karimov and other Uzbek officials.
Discussion were held in friendly atmosphere and they agreed on establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries, beginning of civilian flights by the airlines of the two countries to Kabul and Tashkent and holding discussion for opening transit route between Uzbekistan, Pakistan and Iran through Afghanistan, President Rabbani visited the historic cities of Samarqand and Bukhara.
This was the first visit of a leader of Afghanistan to Central Asia after the establishment of the Islamic government in Kabul in April. The visit helps in establishing friendly tics between Af ghanistan and Uzbekistan * and can provide an example for relation with other Central Asian republics.
On the way back to Kabul, President Rabbani spent two nights in Mazar-i-Sharif where he met with the government officials .and Mujahideen commanders.
! Premier office run by three deputies
| After Abdul Saboor Farced was sacked from the interim government be-i cause he supported his .party's attacks on Kabul. his job was divided between [ three of his former dcpuues.
Engineer Ahmad Shah, who is also the interior minister, works in the i prime minster's office on Saturdays and Thursdays; Haji Dcen Mohammad, the j education minister, on Mondays and Wednesdays; and Sayyed Salman Gailani, i the foreign minister, on Sundays and Tuesdays.	‘,
| Ahmad Shah belongs to Ittihad of Prof. Sayyaf, Dcen Mohammad to Hczb I Islami (Khalis group), and Salman Gailani to the National Islamic From of Pir ' Gailani.	.	I
i-----------------------------------------------------   i
Editorial
[ From page (4)	|
certainty. It might serve the personal interests of some political leaders, but it threatens the security and economic prosperity of the country.
Seven theoretically equal leaders cannot govern. This system might have had some relevance in exile, but k cannot rule Afghanistan. Some-leaders and their hangervon confuse the situation in Afghanistan with conditions, in Peshawar, where they habitually made alliances one day and broke them the next.
That was possible in exile, because they were not expected to govern - to establish law and order or provide foi the people's essential needs. But such an approach in Afghanistan will ruin the country and turn the people against , the Islamic government...
While the mam problem in convening .the Hal-o-Agd council comes from Afghan political leaders, forcigr hands dearly are involved in.rreatin? problems for the Islamic government.
Foreign circles, and secular ele ments among Afghans, arc worrier about the formation of an Islamic gov emment through popular consent. The) want to see a secular system in Kabul led by a coalition of secular element: i within the Mujahideen and the forme communist regime.
The Afghan people have fough for an Islamic government; the forma , tion of such a government is the nature j result of 14 years of Jehad. Neither in tcmal nor external conspiracies cai I stop the formation of a popular Islamii I government in Afghanistan.
! Herat's transitional administration
A new Transitional adminisuatioi has been set up in Herat by th Mujahideen. Commander Ismail Kha has been appointed governor and com minder of Army Corps No. 4. Othe appointments arc:
•	Haji Meer Abdul Khaliq, deput | governor
•	Allauddin Khan, commander c division No. 17
•	Sufi Abdul Jabar, deputy com mander of division No. 17
•	Sultan Ahmad, treasurer
•	Azizullah Afzali. commander c the police department
•	Mohammad Arif, commander c Armored Division No. 4
•	Ghulam Yahya, the deputy conr mander of Division No. 4
•	Qari Ali Ahmad, commander c the Frontier Guard