AFGHANews Vol 6, No 1, January 1,1990, page ©
r— -	-
News
From the battlefields
Salang
The Mujahideen from the Supervisory Council of Jami'at blocked the Salang Highway for three days and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy in Salang, Jabulseraj and Bagram.
The Mujahideen on the 16th of December, attacked the enemy's positions in Salang Valley, Jabulsert, Totom Dara and Bagram air base. The heavy weapons of the Mujahideen pounded the enemy posts and installation causing heavy casualties on them.
The Mujahideen had planned an attack on the enemy positions in Deh Naw, but due to heavy mine fields the attack was called of after four Mujahideen were injured by mine explosions.
Bagram air base was attacked with heavy weapons but no details of casualties were immediately available.
In Salang Valley, eleven post and the sub-district administrative headquarters were totally destroyed. Four tanks were destroyed and 40 enemy soldiers were killed and 20 were injured.
The Mujahideen attacked the enemy garrison and out post in Jabulseraj with heavy weapons. Three enemy posts were wiped out in Qala-i-Sahra area. Four enemy soldiers were killed and two wounded.
Twelve soldiers were killed and 15 injured when the Mujahideen attacked the enemy installation of Urg-i-. Jabulseraj. Two tanks were destroyed
In Totom Dara, at the mouth of Ghoiband, two enemy posts were destroyed and four soldiers woe killed.
On the 18th of December, twenty oil tankers and two tanks were set on fire in Jangal Bagh area.
In the three day operation, four Mujahideen were injured in Salang and
seven people from a single family were killed in Shotol when a SCUD missile hit their residence.
A total of four SCUD missiles were fired into the Shotol valley causing destruction of many houses.
The regime has fired many Origan rockets in different parts of Shamali. Due to cloudy air conditions, the regime air force remained out of action.
The Mujahideen called of their three day attack due to snow fall.
Takhar province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the enemy positions in Khwaja Ghar district on the 10th of December, killing 50 enemy soldiers and capturing 14.
Seven posts were destroyed and the following armaments were captured: one AGS-17 grenade launcher, three RPG rocket launchers and more than 50 rifles of different types.
The Mujahideen lost six men and ten others sustained injuries. The enemy fired four SCUD missiles and its war planes bombed Taloqan and the surrounding areas of Khwaja Ghar, killing at least 30 civilians and injuring a large number of them.
In the attack against Kwaja Ghar a small group from Ittihad (Prof. Sayyaf) also took part.
Balkh province
An enemy transport plane was shot down with a Stinger missile on the 9th of December, in Sholgar district
All 25 occupants of the plane were killed. The enemy have continued aerial -bombing and firing by artillery and rockets on the Mujahideen positions. Recently 20 Mujahideen including two commanders were martyred and more than 40 were wounded as a result of these bombardments. Jami'at is a leading fighting force in Balkh.
Herat province
Fifteen armed militiamen woe captured by the Mujahideen under the command of Ismael Khan on the 16th of December, in Beland Aab area of Guzara district.
The next day 20 armed militiamen were captured in Gooshmir area of the same district
The militiamen belonged to Sayed Ahmad, a commander of pro-regime militiamen in Herat
On the 11th of December, the Mujahideen captured five militiamen and wounded five others in Qala-i-Yusuf Khan of Guzara. The Mujahideen seized eight guns in this operation.
On the same day two trucks belonging to a militia group were destroyed by land mine and four militiamen were killed in Babaji Sahib, outside the city of Herat
On the 13th of December, the enemy forces attacked the Mujahideen position in Haji Aabad, close to the Iran border. A BM-13 rocket launcher and two tanks of the enemy were destroyed by the Mujahideen.
The next day, the Mujahideen destroyed eight tanks and trucks in Gorg Aabad of Ghooryan district, killing 15 enemy militiamen and capturing 30 guns. Two Mujahideen were injured in this operation.
On the 15th of December, fighting between the Mujahideen and Communist forces took place in Kohsan district which resulted in the killing of two enemy officers and injuring of another.
On the same day the Mujahideen fired rockets into the civilian Khad (regime's secret police) headquarters in Herat city, killing four members of that organization.
Land mine kills 13 refugees
Thirteen refugees were killed in Logar when the vehicle carrying them hit a Soviet-planted mine in the first week of November, MEDIA reported.
The pick-up carrying refugees was on its way to Pakistan when the tragedy happened.
The report say that the ill-fated pick-up was travelling at night to avoid aerial bombing from the communists and entered a mine field created by the Soviets before their withdrawal.
Due to fighting and harsh life in Kabul a lot of people are trying to escape to Pakistan.