AFGHANews Vol8, No 7, April 1,1992, page 0
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Cmdr. Darab Khan
Darab Khan, 38, is a commander who -has served	under
Commander Masood, inside and outside the Panjshir valley, since the beginning of Soviet invasion	of
Afghanistan.
Darab's first experience in war was a daring daylight attack on regime van in Rukha, a town in Panjshir, in 1980. He and a few other Mujahideen attacked the van that carryed soldiers with grenade inside the perimeters of the regime's garrison. Few soldiers were killed and two Kalashnikov rifles were seized. A few months later, he took part in another daylight attack on an observation post inside the enemy garrison, killing several soldiers and officers. These operations raised the morale of the local Mujahideen and people.
Darab was arrested by the regime police in the fall of 1980 when he secretly visited Kabul to do some work in relation to Jehad. He remained in jail for six months and was released because of lack of evidence.
Witnessing Darab's courage and leadership qualities, Masood sent him outside Panjshir to lead a group of Mujahideen in Shemali, north of Kabul, in the operations against Soviet and regime troops. He served as a commander of Kohband, Kohistan District, in 1982. He led 100 Mujahideen in an operation in An darab in 1983. When the Soviets launched the 7th offensive against Panjshir in 1984, Darab and a few of the local Mujahideen returned to the valley after initial evacuation ordered by Masood. He and his fellow Mujahideen continued to attacked the Soviet troops stationed in Rukha.
Later in the year# he was appointed the commander of Zamankoor, in the lower part of Panjshir, and then the commander of Hisarak, a side-valley in Rukha, where he remained for two years. When Masood formed the Islamic Army, he organized military and political classes to train commanders. Darab attended one of these classes in the upper part of Worsaj in Takhar. Since the total liberation of Panjshir in 1989, Darab remained in the valley to take care of his family.
Darab was bon in Shast, a village in Rukha. His father, Purdil Khan, was a farmer. Darab learned the basics of Islam in the mosque school of his vil-
lage and went to school at the age of seven. He left school when he was in the 11th class to do his military service. When he was asked, why did not he finish school, he said: "My brother Rahm Dil refused to do his military service. My father was under pressure from the government because of that and I wanted to teach my brother a practical lesson by volunteering to do the military service".
The communist coup of 1978 took place when he was serving in the army in Balahisar of Kabul. He completed his service during the communists’ rule and began to work in a private auto repair shop in Kabul. Darab returned to Panjshir with , three of his brothers at the end of 1979 to join the Mujahideen. Since then, he and his brothers has been fighting against the Soviets and the Kabul regime. His youngest brother, Ainuddin, was martyred in 1981 in Gulbahar, a town at the mouth of the Panjshir valley, in fighting with regime and Soviet forces. One of his brothers, Rahm Dil, was injured in fighting with militias of the regime in Jabulseraj and was treated in the US. He returned to Afghanistan after receiving medical treatment.
Darab and his brothers have inherited courage from their father. Iii early 1980, his father was taken to the army base in Rukha along with some other elders of the town to meet the commander of the garrison. The commander wanted the elders of the town to pledge not to support the Mujahideen operating in the town. He asked Purdil Khan: "How many of your sons are fighting against us?". "Four of diem," replied the old man in calm but firm voice. "Where do they eat their daily meal?" the commander asked. "In my house, sir," replied the old man. Every body, including die commander of the garrison, smiled by the honest answers of the old man and appreciated his courage. Purdil Khan told the regime officer that if the government could not deal with the Mujahideen with all soldiers and guns at his disposal, how could he stop them while being an old man with no arms.
Darab got married in 1983 and has four children. When asked what he was willing to do in the future, he replied: "I will consult Commander Masood before making my final decisions."
nored the important ^
Mujahideen in the riortb. The change
£Sfl ■.I..__:	: