*
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 23, December 1,1989, page ©
News
From the battlefields
Kabul province
Mujahideen under the command of Anwar Khan launched a major attack to close Kabul-Jalalabad highway on November 16. This operation coincided with the Mujahideen operation in Samar Khail. The enemy retaliated with heavy bombing of the Mujahideen positions.
On November 17, a MIG fighter was shot down with a Stinger missile. The plane, which caught fire in the air, crashed between Jegdalik and Surkhrood district.
The Kabul regime fired a SCUD missile on November 18, but caused no casualties. The missile landed in the Mia Khail area of Soroobi.
On November 19, the Mujahideen brought a section of the road under their control. Dargaw post was evacuated by the enemy after two tanks were destroyed. Two Mujahideen were injured.
On the same day, another enemy post was evacuated. Four Mujahideen were injured in the operation.
On November 21, the Mujahideen destroyed one tank and two trucks with heavy-weapons fire. One Mujahid was injured.
Regime warplanes heavily bombed the area. One of the bombs hit the enemy post of Gelam Jam and set it on fire. Enemy casualties were not immediately known.
On November 22, the enemy attempted to resupply its post in Tangi-i-Abrashumi. One tank , one jeep and two trucks were set on fire. The enemy post of Dargaw was destroyed and an enemy ammunition dump in Soroobi was set on fire. Enemy casualties could not be estimated.
On November 24, an enemy supply convoy going to Jalalabad came under Mujahideen attack. The convoy retreated after losing four trucks.
On November 25, the Mujahideen
destroyed one enemy tank.
•The united forces of the mujahideen in Paghman, about 20 kilometers west of Kabul, have captured Fajak garrison, and enemy attempts to recapture the garrison have been foiled.
Except Hakim Khail, Seyah Koh and Art posts, the rest of the district is undo1 Mujahideen control.
•The Mujahideen from Jami’at, under the command of Anwar Khan, captured Baba Sahib post, located between Shakar Data and Paghman, on November 3. All the soldiers in the posts were captured along with their weapons. No details were available.
Herat province
Commander Captain Ismael. Khan said in a radio messaage that 53 soldiers were killed, 65 others wounded and an ammunition dump set on fire, when the Mujahideen attacked the airport of Herat on November ! 1.
In a separate attack by Mujahideen, launched on the same date against the army corps of Herat, 60 soldiers and militiamen of the communist regime were killed and 12 other injured.
Mujahideen also ambushed a convoy of the communist regime along the Torghondi-Herat highway, destroyed several armored cars and killed 69 soldiers.
The' Mujahideen captured 67 Kalashnikov rifles and 62 motorcycles.
Four communists were killed when the Mujahideen attacked them with heavy weapons close to Behzad Hotel in the city of Herat on November 7.
Three militiamen were killed and two injured when the Mujahideen of Ismael Khan attacked their post close to the city of Herat on November 4. The Mujahideen captured three Kalashnikov
rifles.
One tank and one jeep of the enemy were destroyed when the Mujahideen fired ground-to-ground rockets into the armored regiment of the regime on November 5. The enemy suffered casualties, but no details were available.
On November 4, the Mujahideen from Jami’at killed four militiamen in Guzara district and seized two Kalashnikov rifles.
On November 13, the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the enemy armored regiment in Herat, killing seven people, including a high-ranking officer of the regime. The enemy retaliated by heavy bombing of the area which resulted in the killing of one Mujahid and the wounding of two others.
On November 18, the Mujahideen from Jami'at fired ground-to-ground rockets into the 7th division headquarters, killing six people.
On the same day an enemy truck was set on fire in Lakhshak area. An unknown number of enemy soldiers were injured in the incident
On November 18, the Mujahideen blocked Herat-Torghondi road and destroyed one truck. One officer and several soldiers were killed. The Mujahideen seized 10 Kalashnikov rifles and three motorcycles.
Nangarhar province
The Mujahideen launched a united attack against the enemy posts in Samar Khail on November 14. Two posts were captured.
Samar Khail garrison was liberated at the beginning of the current year, but was recaptured by the communists some months later.
The Mujahideen have said that their attack on Samar Khail has limited objectives.
Reports of heavy fighting in the North of Afghanistan is reaching Peshawar, the details of which will be published, God willing, in the coming issue of AFGHANews.
Kandahar province
The Mujahideen from Jami’at, under the command of Mullah Naqibullah, attacked the residence of the Kandahar governor. General Abdul Haq Olumi, killing five persons, including an officer, chi November 12.