AEGHANew Voll No 12. June 15i.l9e8, Page 2

News
from the battlefields
i	*	-*
Panjshir valley liberated
THE Russians and the Kabul puppet regime s forces totally evacuated Panjshir valley on May 26. The valley is under control of the Mujahideen.
Before leaving from Rukha and A nab a, Russians planted mines in the area. So far a number of civilians have been killed or wounded by the mines. The return of Panishir refugees to their valley has been delayed because of the presence of the mines. The Mujahideen are trying to defuse the mines before the return of the people.
Salang
THE Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked a ORA post in Ahengaran on May 2V They took 120 officers and soldiers prisoner , seized 70 Katashinkov rifles; two Dschks apd one RPG-7.
The Mujahideen did not have any casualties in the Operation.
Ahangar&n is located half-way between the Salang tunnel and jabalsaraj town.
Zabul province
•THE Mujahideen from Jami’at attacked a DRA military post destroying two
enemy positions, taking prisoner 15 soldiers, capturing 30 Kalashinkov rifles and three heavy machine guns on May 26.
The attack which was launched under the command of Rahimultah, took place in Shah Joey district.
One Mujahid was killed and two others were injured in the operation.
• In another operation on a DRA base in Shinkai district, the Mujahideen killed one soldier, wounded 20 and 62 others surrendered to the Mujahideen on May 29. The defecting soldiers brought
with them 50 light weapons , two mortars and two light machine guns.
The Mujahideen lost two men and 10 others were wounded.
Kabul
THE Mujahideen captured three posts and a KHAD center, killed some soldiers, seized five Katashinfcov rifles and a great amount of food stuff on May 19.
The posts were located about 20 kilometers North of Kabul city and their capture resulted in the liberation of five villages. One Mujahid was wounded in the operation.
The following day the regime launched a retaliatory attack on the Mujahideen in
Bala Kariz and Kariz Mir villages. In three days of fighting, 30 soldiers were either killed or wounded.
The Mujahideen lost four men and six others were wounded.
Kunduz
THE Mujahideen from jami'at attacked enemy posts in Imam Saheb close to the Soviet border on May 13. Thirty soldiers were killed and 40 others captured. They seized 70 Kalashinkov rifles The attack was carried out under the command of Ezatullah.
Takhar
•THE Mujahideen attacked an enemy post in Zardkamar area in Khawja-i-Ghar district on May 23. Twenty regime soldiers and one officer surrendered to the Mujahideen bringing with them 19 tight weapons, one rocket launcher and one machine gun.
•Different units of the Mujahideen attacked DRA militia posts in Khwaja Char killing more than 40 militias, capturing 28 others and seizing 56 light and heavy weapons on May 15.
The posts were under the control of the militia commander. Samad. The fighting lasted for two weeks during which, four Mujahideen were killed and some other injured.
Logar
• IN two incidents, the Mujahideen from Jami'at led by Commander Fazlullah attacked enemy forces destroying more than ten APCs. six trucks and killing their crews.
The first operation was carried out on Russian troops going from Gardez to Kabul