
Jmi
I fill fi!
si lli&i is**®
?jk 'x i Z. I i ppliill PS	'\ '
pp 1 1 fti I r’/P r?i i i | i
^ %|i %p . •■vsw jpi ly %y^iiPr-3
lIllBlIBliil^ll^Bl
pp:is
:	Jk	Jpt
iisfl^iiiipiM



Vol 7, No 8
April 15,1991
Khost is liberated
Afghan Mujahideen captured Khost on March 31. They seized more than 2,000 regime soldiers and officers and a large quantity of arms and ammunition, including tanks, armored cars, helicopters, light and heavy guns. The Mujahideen and refugees celebrated the fall of Khost as a major victory, while the Kabul regime announced one day of mourning for its loss.
Khost District is located about 150 kilometers southeast of Kabul and about 25 kilometers, from the Pakistan border. Khost was considered a strong base of the communist regime not only because of its strong garrison, but because its population suported the communist regime in Kabul. It was the home of some of the present PDPA leaders and was nicknamed "Little Moscow".
Since the beginning of the communist coup, Khost has beat one of the Mujahideen's targets. Its land routes have been cut since 1986 and it has been supplied mostly by air.
The Mujahideen offensive which led to the liberation of Khost began on March 13, three days before the start of the holy month of - Ramadhan. Ramadhan is normally characterized by lower military activities, and launching a decisive offensive during Ramadhan may have surprised the enemy. There are signs that the Kabul regime knew that Mujahideen were planning an attack on Khost; reinforcements had been sent to join the defenders.
The Mujahideen started their attack with a massive three-day rocket barrage on the garrison town and followed this with ground attacks from all sides.
All the Mujahideen parties (including Jami'at) took part in the attack, and the war was conducted by a 23-member council of local commanders. Commander Jalaluddin Haqqani played a key role in leading the battle against the regime at Khost
Simultaneously, the Mujahideen
Cmdr. Jalaluddintfaqqani played the leading role in liberation of Khost.
attacked neighboring Jaji Maidan District and some other sub-districts around Khost and liberated them one after the other. Their fall isolated Khost further and cut off its vital supplies of food smuggled from Pakistan, a trade directed by tribes sympathetic to the regime, living along the border between the two countries.
The Mujahideen made effective use of artillery and tanks in the Khost operation. The primary purpose of the offensive was to capture the strategic posts around Khost, bringing the airfields undo' fire so that the city's air link with Kabul was cut Advanced preparations and short supply lines helped the Mujahideen to achieve their objective.
The major weakness of the regime garrison was its isolation. Once the city airport was in the range of the Mujahideen's artillery, resupplying Khost became extremely dangerous. The regime tried to supply the city during the night, but during these operations lost many transport planes in addition a number of helicopters and jets.
Rainy weather also made the regime's task of supplying and defending Khost more difficult. Kabul relied very much on the use of SCUD and Frog missiles to slow down the Mujahideen's advance.
Najibullah, the head of the Kabul Tegime, has complained that the Khalq faction betrayed him by collaboration with the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen, however, have not admitted such collaboration.
Hezb Islami Hikmatyar in 1990 had planned to capture Khost with the help of supporters of Shah Nawaz Tanai, the former defence minister of PDPA and Khalqi leader who had defected to Hikmatyar after an abotive coup in March of that year. But other Mujahideen groups opposed the move and preferred an all-out military operation involving all Mujahideen.
Preliminary reports from the Mujahideen say that more than two thousand regime soldiers, officers and militiamen were captured in the operation and the Mujahideen seized huge quantities of arms and ammunition. A 13-member committee has been set up by the local Mujahideen commandos to distribute the captured equipment among the Mujahideen groups. Each group will get a share proportionate to its fighting strength.
About 500 of the captured regime troops were wounded. They and other prisoners were transferred to safe areas, and the wounded were provided with medical assistance. The Mujahideen asked ICRC to help the wounded prisoners. It is said around 300 regime troops were killed during the operation.
The Mujahideen casualties are said to light but so far no figures are available.
Reports speak of proper treatment of prisoners of war by the Mujahideen, and an absence of looting and undisciplined behavior .after the defeat of the regime troops. This is a positive development because the press and some international organizations concerned with human rights had critic cized the Mujahideen’s behavior in areas liberated in the past. Some papers had predicted a similar situation after
Turn to page (5)