AFGHANews Vol 8, No 18 & 19, October 1, 1992, page ©
Bomb explosion fails to kill General Dilawar
Editorial	|
Send good diplomats to Afghan embassies
The unnecessary delay in appointing Afghan ambassadors to the UN and capitals of countries involved and interested in Afghan issue is-the main reason for the failure of the Islamic government to attract foreign humanitarian aid for the reconstruction of Afghanistan and to combat misunderstandings about the true situation in the country and policies of the Islamic government.
Although, the victory of Lhe Mujahideen over the communist regime caught the world by surprise, the world community accepted it.as a natural consequence of 14 years of Jehad waged by the.people of Afghanistan. More than 30 countries recognized the Islamic government in a period of one month after the fall of the regime. The Islamic Republics of Iran and Pakistan sent ambassadors to Kabul.
While it was necessary for the Islamic government to appoint ambassadors td the UN and capitals of important countries, this was not done even after about five months of victory of the Mujahideen. Afghan missions abroad are run by low-ranking diplomats, mostly from the previous regime with some appointed by the Islamic government.
Appointments of ambassadors to the UN , Saudi Arabia, Iran, Pakistan, West European countries, US, Russia and Central Asian states should have taken place in the first days after the establishment of the Islamic government because they have a direct or indirect influence on developments in the country and are potential donors to the reconstruction program in Afghanistan.
The appointment of capable ambassadors who are committed to the Islamic State can reduce misunderstandings about the situation in Afghanistan. Using their diplomatic skills, ambassadors have the means to defend the rights of their country more effectively than occasional trips abroad by the nauoartf leaders. s
Many countries supported the:Mujahideen in their Jehad against the Soviet invaders. They cooperated with the Mujahideen in the political, cultural and economic fields. Since the Mujahideen were not organized in a single body, these countries cooperated with different parties. It seems that some countries still continue to provide assistance to their favorite Afghan parties. The time has come to put an end to the relation between individual parties and foreign countries. The Foreign Ministry of the Islamic government should be the only channel for contact with foreign governments. This is only possible after appointing committed and skilful ambassadors to Afghan missions abroad.
The attacks by Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar on Kabul resulted in killing and wounding of hundreds of people and enormous loss of private and government property. This attack could not have launched without financial and logistical support from abroad. If we had had capable ambassadors in neighboring countries, they could have pressed their host countries to stop the flow of aid to forces fighting against the legal government of Afghanistan.
The Afghan embassy in Saudi Arabia hasriot been opened yet. The government of Saudi Arabia has been a major supporter of the Mujahideen during the years of Jehad and has recognized the Islamic government in Kabul. But some religious circles in Saudi Arabia who used to collect funds from ordinary people to support Jehad are giving assistance to Hezb to fight against the government. The appointment of a skillful ambassador could help in building of close ties with the government of Saudi Arabia, and might also encourage Saudi Ulama to stop financing the war against the Islamic government.
There are misunderstandings about the policies of the Islamic state in the West too. Accurate information about the political and security situation in Afghanistan is not reaching the public in the West. -The Islamic Government needs to launch a comprehensive campaign to enlighten both governments and

To pzge (8j
General Asif Dilawar, the chief of army staff of Afghanistan, was slightly injured in a bomb explosion on September 29, and his driver was killed in the incident.
The remote-controlled bomb was planted near Microrayan No. Ill, a housing complex in Kabul, on the airport road. It exploded in the morning when General Dilawar was on his way to work.
Asif Dilawar is a native of Kapisa Province. He helped to transfer power from the Najib regime to the Mujahideen. Because of his role in the transfer of power, he remained in his post as chief of army staff after the fall of the communist regime. The presence of senior regime officers such as General Dilawar in the armed forces gave Gulbuddin ammunition to brand the Islamic government in Kabul " a coalition government of some Mujahideen and communists".
There is no information about those responsible behind bomb attack but the action was aimed to undermine the authority of the Islamic government.
One month ago. General Rasool Parwani, an officer of the Defense Minisuy, was killed by a car'bomb and an attempt was made on life of General Baba Jan, a general of the army who supported the Mujahideen against. Najib. Hezb Islami's hand was suspected in these terrorist incidents.
According to a source close to the Ministry of Defense, the replacement of Asif Dilawar by General Rahim Wardak, a commander of NIFA, is being discussed. A decision is to be announced in the near future. ■
Fazli appointed Chief Justice
Mohammad Shah Fazli, the deputy leader of Harakat Inqilab Islami, has been appointed Chief Justice of Afghanistan and Saifur Rahman Sayef, a member of Jami'at, as one of his deputies. According to Lhe Peshawar agreement the position of the chief justice is given to Harakat Inqilab Islami of Afghanistan headed by Mawlawi Nabi ,iohammadi.