fiFGWJK HC.US I'BL.iy, K>. 1, 15/2/1968,v PflOE 7
 But wherever possible aid is now being channelled towards rebuilding agriculture and infrastructure. Several agencies have supported a programme to help local communities reprove farming and livestockrearing in eastern Afghanistan. Further assistance of this kind is desparately needed to help more people remain in their home areas and avoid displacement or exile.
The book end with a scries of recommendations presented to and adopted by the International Council of Voluntary Agencies - m influential form comprising of 01 nan-government organizations from 26 countries - in Geneva in October 1987. The recommendations have also boeu presented to Britain's Foreign 8. Commonwealth Office.
                                          RECOMMENDATIONS
1-  All governments should actively support diplomatic initiatives to bring about a political solution which would restore the right of self-determination to the Afghan people.
2- All agencies-govemmental        of non-governmental -      should
substantially increase the amount and scope of their assistance to the Afghan people, both inside and outside Afghanistan.
3-  Such assistance should reflect the needs, values and aspirations of Afghans, allowing them to sustain and develop their society and culture and restoring thoir ability to manage their own lives.
     Governments and voluntary agencies should channel more development aid to communities Inside Afghanistan, thus enabling them to remain in their home areas instead of being forced to flee abroad or become internal refugees.
5- UlfflCR should investigate, as a matter of urgency, tire nonregistration of new arrivals of Afghan refugees in Pakistan.
6-  Assistance to Af gum refugees should not only address their immediate needs but should also be directed toward development programmes and initiatives which would allow them to preserve and develop their society arid culture.
7-  Governments, inter-governmental agencies and NGOs must, fully recognize the heavy burden borns by Pakistan and Iran in giving sanctuary to the refugees, and should where possible direct additional resources to local people in the areas of greatest need in these countries.
8-  HGOs should play a more active role in publicizing how ordinary Afghans, both inside and outside the country, are organizing themselves to sustain their society.
                               FIRST GET RID OF THE SOVIETS AND THEN WORRY ABOUT OTHERS
Iranian Majlis (parliament) speaker, Hashimi Rafsanjard, told tl' Japan broadcasting corporation that Iran will prevent US influent on Afghanistan after the Soviets have left.