AFGHANews Vol 6, No 5, March 1, 1990, page ©
Takhar province
The Kabul regime suffered a major setback in the North when the Mujahideen killed the governor of Takhar and 40 Other regime military and political figures of the province in an attack near Khawja-i-Ghar district on February 20.
An enemy convoy wanted to take supplies to the newly established 55th division in Khwaja-i-Ghar two months ago but the road was blocked by Mujahideen from the Supervisory Council. On February 20 the enemy launched a two-pronged attack from Khawja-i-Grhar and Kunduz directions to open the road for the supply convoy. In the fighting which continued for 4 days the Mujahideen destroyed 10 tanks and armored cars and a large number of trucks and killed about forty enemy soldiers and officers including Mohammad Elyas Saifi, the governor of Takhar. The fighting took place in a relatively flat area.
The Mujahideen force were composed of about 200 men from the Council army commanded by Sayed Yahya.
Faryab province
The .Mujahideen from Jami'at killed 40 enemy militiamen and liberated four villages close to Maimana on January 31. The Mujahideen under the command of Mawlawi Sayed Yousuf liberated Juma Bazar and three other villages and brought under their control Maimana-Shereen Tagab road.
Regime forces launched a counter attack to recapture the area they lost, but failed to force the Mujahideen out of the newly liberated areas.
In the fighting the Mujahideen killed 40, wounded 50 and captured 20 soldiers. Thirty armed soldiers also defected to the Mujahideen.
Nineteen Mujahideen were killed and 41 injured in the operation.
Balkh province
The Mujahideen under the command of Moalem Ata attacked liberated village in Nahr-i-Shahi district and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy forces.
On February 22, the Mujahideen attacked Seyah Gerd village, capturing two militia commanders and ten soldiers and seizing the following weapons:
1- Kalashnikov	150
2- Armored car	1
3-ZPU	10
4- 76mm	1
5- Mortars	2
6- Trucks	2
60 soldiers joined the Mujahideen bringing 44 AK-47s. One truck was set on fire, H) enemy soldiers were killed and three were injured
On 23 February, the Mujahideen captured another enemy post and seized the following weapons:
1-ZPU	1
2- Mortar	1
3-AK-47 rifles	127
4-Radio sets	2
5- Trucks	1
Eleven enemy soldiers were captured, ten were killed and six wounded.
The new liberated villages have a population of abut 20,000.
Samangan province
The ^Mujahideen attacked the enemy in Aibak with heavy weapons, destroying one BM-21 rocket launcher, two armoured cars and six trucks on 21 February.
The enemy retaliated by firing rockets into the residential areas, killing two civilian^ Mazaar-Puli Khumri road was blocked at least for six. days starting from February 15.
Kandahar province
Mullah Faizullah reports that the Mujahideen shot down an enemy helicopter with a ZPU (14.6 mm) machine gun in Dand district on February 20.
Farah province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the enemy position in Nagan area of Shindand, killing five enemy soldiers and wounding seven. One Mujahid was also injured.
Ghore province
The Mujahideen under the command of Mawlawi Musa killed eight militiameh and destroyed one jeep in Ghore on February 22.
| '■y'v \'V.
reaches Gerdiz
One hundred vehicles bringing food, fuel and ammunition reached Gerdiz, the provincial capital of Paktia after covering a distance of about 100 miles in 42 days.
The convoy started its journey on January 2, but was halted in Logar by the Mujahideen. Despite severe cold weather and shortages of ammunition the Mujahideen put up a tough resistance, and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy.
Logar is a relatively flat province with little cover during winter. The enemy made extensive use of rocket, artillery and aircraft against the resistance and in some cases launched ground attacks from several directions. A large number of government troops and militiamen brought from different parts of Afghanistan took part in the attack.
With these supplies the regime force in Gerdiz could hold out longer and supplies could even be airlifted to Khost which is besieged by the Mujahideen.
The arrival of the convoy to Gerdiz was an apparent victory for the regime army but the Mujahideen who fight a guerrilla war held it up for a long time.
The Mujahideen in the Khost front captured the strategic mountain-top post of Toor-Ghar, ova: looking Khost airport.
If the Mujahideen can hold this place, they can make the airport unsafe for supply planes of the enemy to land. The Regime's garrison in the border town of Khost is supplied by air.