AFGHANews Vol 5, No 22, November 15,1989, page ©
From the Diary of Jehad	Part	(4)
Local talent used to rebuild devastated Panjshir valley
The first part of the journey to Panjshir was covered by jeep. We drove up to a natural lake, called Houz-i-Veghnan, where my horse was waiting for me. The road from the center of Worsaj to Houz, about 10 kilometers, has been built by the Reconstruction Committee of the Supervisory Council.
The Veghnan valley is beautiful. We stayed the night in a mountain camp as guests of a few families from Worsaj who go there every summer to graze their livestock. Since I was accompanied by a commander whom the male members of the families knew, we were treated very well.
We were awakened at 2:00 a.m by the sound of gunfire. A group of Mujahideen were returning from the north and they were impressed by the sight of the tracer bullets in the darkness of the narrow valley.
We started our journey with them but since we had horses we easily passed the group.
The pass which we were supposed to cross is called Kotal-i-Zard (Yellow Pass). The name is give to it because of the yellow color of its rocks. It is the highest pass going from Panjshir to the North.
At the other side of the pass nomads had pitched their tents. Their flock was grazing bn both sides of the narrow valley.
We were invited in for tea and bread. Return of the nomads in large numbers to Panjshir was a sign of the situation’s improvement. Nomads used to come to Panjshir before the war, but aerial bombardments by the Soviets and lack of security along their traditional routes almost ended their yearly summer trips to the highlands of the Hindu Kush. A few groups were an exception. They came during the years of occupation and some of them did great service for the Mujahideen and the refugees during their summer stay. The nomads (known as Koochis) find Panjshir a save haven where the law and order situation is quite good.
Walking past the farms sown with wheat, sweet pease and broad beans was a good experience. In the afternoon we reached Jishta, a village in the middle of Peryan. We went to the house of an old friend. His house has a special history with regard to my family.
They had lived there in 1979 after
W
By: Mohammad EsTiaq
the Mujahideen were forced to retreat to the upper part of the valley by the communists.
My younger brother, who was a brave fighter and very close to commander Masood, was injured by a home-made hand grenade and later died in the same room. He was buried in the village not far from the house.
e were told the road had been completed to the lower part of Peryan and that it was possible we could catch a vehicle along the way. I decided to leave my horse in the village. The owner of the house promised to look after it without expecting any material reward.
Early in the mprning we started to walk down the valley. We saw that in one village a group of people were working on the road. The road had made progress. It is being built by hand in the Panjshir. There is no road-building machinery. Engineers from the Reconstruction Committee make the plans, which are applied by the foremen, who had worked in road construction when the Salang highway was being built.
After having tea in the last village we set off on the driveable road. We were not lucky enough to catch a vehicle, and continued to walk. Some other workers were building a bridge on a river flowing from a side valley. The most difficult part of the 20-kilometer road was a pass called Bamwardar. The slope of the road exceeds 15% in some place, and it was nairow. A group of workers were busy widening the road by blasting rocks.
We stayed the night in the house of Commander Abdul Mohammad who is known for his precise mortar firing. He often hits a moving truck about five kilometers away with the second round.
We were given fresh mulberries and apricots, which are the famous fruits of the valley.
In the morning we started our downward journey hoping to find a vehicle to take us to Rukha (a town in the center of the valley). We waited in a tea house until 10 a.m without success.
We started to walk. Walking along the flat road hoping to find a vehicle is not very pleasant. We saw many jeeps and trucks parked under the shadow of the mulberry trees. They were not mov-
ing because the fuel was very expensive. The lower we went the more jeeps and trucks (all made in USSR) we saw. I asked the reason for buying so many vehicles. Someone told me that the Mujahideen are thinking of an alternative road to the north through Panjshir. In case Salang is closed, the people could use the new road. A lot of people have bought vehicles to transport goods and people on the new road which is to be built.
After a one-hour walk we reached Safid Shir town, which was very busy. Shops and restaurants were open. Construction work on a bridge and a mosque was in progress. I met some old friends who invited me for lunch. One of them was kind enough to take me by his jeep to the next town, Khench, about 10 kilometers down the road.
Khench is a commercial center. Its people are relatively rich. You can find all sorts of goods in the market of the town. The reason for its prosperity is the presence of emerald mines in the mountains of the town, and the ability
Turn to page (4 )
Editoral
From page (4)
A recent attack on the Salang high-way was called off when the Mujahideen faced shortages of RPG shells.
In addition to ups and downs of arms deliveries, which Mr. Kelly admits, the Mujahideen must now fight an offensive war, which requires a tremendous amount of arms and ammunition.
In the face of massive Soviet supplies being sent to the regime, the shortages of arms and ammunition is serious indeed.
Over-optimism in the Reagan-era State Department raised expectations to a dangerous level, and the resistance suffered as a result. The present inaccurate statements by American officials could be even more harmful because our struggle has entered a very critical stage.
John Kelly is right when he says the Afghans are determined to continue their struggle. But that is not because they have everything they need.