—--------------AFGKANew	Volt	No	18,	September	13,1988,	Page8
From the diary of Jehad....
stilt to be seen sad the body ofa Russian helicopter was lying in the middle ©f a green corn field,
Shahs a few kilometers lower Than Pushghoor was littered with tens of destroyed enemy tanks and trucks. By seeing the destroyed enemy vehicles besides the house of a poor farmer one had mixed feelings of joy and sorrow.
Garrison
We passed through Baharak Garrison which was abandoned in the spring when the Communist forces fled in disarray and did not have the time to destroy It, The Muiahideen had decided to keep the garrison the way it is and use it as a training center.
A little lower there was a village called Sangona, Five years ago 1 met Commander Masoed in this village. The village was famous for Its large mosque and sweet grapes. But I did not see anything there when 1 passed through.
From Baharak to Bazarafc, the whole area was full of destroyed tanks and trucks. Thanks to the courage of the Mujahideen, especially to Commander Muslim, the enemy will never forget the 1 esses that have been inflicted on it in this area.
Bazarak and Rukha were the most destroyed towns. Rukha was the widest and the most populated part of Panjshir. Its high school had 12,000 students. It had two hig mosques and hundreds of shops.
The ten years of war and four years of total occupation had reduced it to a pile of rubble.
What the Soviets have left behind were two living blocks, a hospital and one school and one administrative building. The Soviets set on
fire their command center before leaving the valley.
1 saw huge ammunition and fuel dumps in a village called Shast, The air stripe and the defensive positions the Soviets had built has changed the face of the ground and needs thousands of hours of manual work to rebuild the irrigation channel and level the fields for cultivation.
The situation of the road was appalling. In some areas It was more like a dry canal rather than a road. Thanks to the big and powerful Soviet trucks which could travel on this road.
Trees were cut and the houses were razed to the ground,
If the road situation Is not improved, it will be closed to traffic in the coming winter due to mud.
Mines pose a serious threat to the returning refugees. The Mujahideen have defused some areas but defusing ail the mines in the valley is a master task which can not be done quickly and it needs equipment. Lack of proper mine-detecting equipment and absence of information about minefields are serious problems in the way of clearing the valley from mines.
Livestock
As more people return the danger will increase.
Children and livestock wifi be the first victims of Russian minefields.
There was no sign of any sort of animals in the lower part of the valley. No cats, no dogs, no donkeys and no cows. Even the wild animals like jackals and foxes were not laying their feet in the valiey because of the mine fields. Now and then the sound of a mine explosion could be heard in the distance. It could have been set off by a
maui or a wild animal.
What tbe Russians left behind was a valley littered with scrap metal, empty cans of conserved food, pieces of soldiers uniforms and empty cases of all sorts of ammunition. Between Rukha and Bazarak there was a pasture in the form of an island surrounded by the river.
Before the war tens of children of the surrounding villages grazed their cows and played games of ail sorts. It was turned into a rubbish dump fey the Soviet army. It is mined too. Where will the children of the surrounding villages graze their cow* and where should they play games when they return?
Mosquitoes
How can the old man fish on the bank of the river when the danger of a mine explosion will always threaten his life?
The Mujahideen were complaining of mosquitoes which give them a hard time, Before the war mosquitoes were net a problem for the people,
in Rukha I met Commander Guihaider, He is an impressive man with an interesting record of achievements. He was about 16 when he joined the Mujahideen. Soon he became famous for his courage and the children of the town sang songs for him,
He lost one of his legs in a mine explosion. After fixing an artificial limb in London he returned to the valley and was chosen as the commander of 200 Mujahideen in Rukha. He led the Mujahideen during a critical phase of jehad.
According to a commander the presence of Gulhaider in a group of the Mujahideen gives the group life and energy. □