AFGHANews Vol7, No 9, May 1, 1991, page ©
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Wisdom of*
the sages
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
Don't be taken in by the rat race
A minister once fell from grace. He left court and joined a group of dervishes. By virtue of their company, he achieved peace of mind and a reformed character.
The ruler soon changed his mind and decided to reinstate the disgraced minister. The man refused and said: "I prefer to live in retirement than to busy myself with politics. Whoever opts for a quiet life is bee to forget the snarling calumnies of rivals. I may no longer have the minister's special pencase, I may have tom up all my papers, but at least I no linger have to put up with bad mouthing from my critics."
The ruler replied: "I always need a competent and wise man to help run my state.”
"The sign of wisdom in a man, " the ex-minister replied, "is precisely not to be taken in by the false attractions of politics. Why is the Huma superior to other birds? Because it is.con-terit to live off dry bones and thus never oppresses any living thing. Have you heard the story of the lynx? It was
asked why it chose to serve in the court of the lion and replied that at court it could live safely protected from its enemies and well-fed with the left-overs of the king's meals. The lynx was also asked why it did not, like other courtiers, manoeuvre to get itself into the innermost circle of the lion’s most trusted companions. Whereupon it said: "I cannot be safe from the king’s anger if I am too close to him. The Zoroastrian can .spend his whole life tending the fire he worships; the fire will bum him up none the less, if ever he. falls into it! Your Majesty's companions never know whether they will make a fortune or loose their heads! It is well known that one should beware of the ruler's fickle moods; he takes offence at a polite greeting one moment and the next he showers rewards on someone who has just insulted him. To be a courtier, you have to be as slippery as an eel; to be a wise man, you have to aim higher. Let politicians flatter and lie and cheat their way to the top! I know my own human worth: that dignity is enough for me.
Money does not make the man
I saw a pot-bellied fool wearing expensive clothes while sitting on a fine Arab horse. A bystander asked me: "What do you think, Sa'di, of these fine silks on that crass idiot?"
"It is like bad writing in gold ink. That ass has none of the moral qualities of a human being. All his pretences are
Animal appetites
A certain man made a vow of abstinence which he repeatedly broke, A shaikh told him: "I know that you are a pathological heavy eater. The will to control your appetites is as britde as a hair, and you indulge your appetites till they would snap the toughest chain. One day you will burst!
Keep a wolf-cub till it grows, and it will tear you to bits."
false, all his possessions acquired dishonestly: he is fit only for a slaughterhouse. A person of quality may fall on hard days, but never think his quality is any the less for his being impoverished. A man who makes quick money dishonestly can plate his house in gold, yet no one will forget the base stock he sprang from."
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
<Ji& 4)	jld
What my heart desired didn’t happen; what God wanted was really done.
Meaning: Man proposes, god disposes.	. . . .	,
• tSutui rwM Ia i^Jut 4j I
H	♦	♦
God isn't in need of our prayers.
Meaning: God hears us out of His mercy alone.
, Though arms are heavy their carrying is essential.
The sun cannot be hidden by a finger.
Meaning: Truth will out. Virtue will not be hidden.