AFGHANews Vol 8 No 10	& 11, June 1,1992, page @
	
UN agencies dog Afghan mines The UN nas donated eight ambu- dog should not be endangered by man-lances to two Afghan demining organi- made mines. zations. TTiey are to be used for evacu- Mines are a major obstacles for the ation of casualties caused by mines. returning refugees and reconstruction The two organizations are Afghan of the country. The Soviets planted be-Technical Consultants (ATC), operat- tween 10 and 30 million mines in ing in the north, east and central parts Afghanistan during over nine years of of Afghanistan, and South West occupation. Afghan Agency for Demining While the rest of the world has (SWAAD), operating in southern and contributed to demining operations, western Afghanistan. Russia and the other CIS slates, which Five ambulances were given to responsible for planting mines in ATC and three to SWAAD. These two Afghanistan, have not been organizations have a total of 29 demin- cooperative. ing teams of 32 deminers each. The Mujahideen leaders asked the The UN-sponsored demining oper- Soviet foreign minister during his re-ation began in 1989, after Soviet 001,1 visit 10 Kabul provide the troops left Afghanistan. Islamic government with maps of the The US government has donated mincficlds' Russia sh°uld f°uW 12 new mine-sniffing dogs. These <tem,n,n8 operauons. They should pay dogs, purchased from Thailand, will compcnsaUon for ^ vlct,ms of Soviet join the 54 dogs previously involved in mincs* mine detection. Panjshir is one of the most heavily- . . , 	. , mined areas of Afghanistan. But so far, The dogs already are trained spe- ... . . . • « c L j . no demining operauons have been cially for the job. The dogs will under- . . . r . ., _ . . J , J. . .. launched in that valley. The go eight more weeks of training with , . . . ... . .. .. , Mujahideen have cleared some areas their new Afghan handlers. After the ..f-. .. . . „ .. . . . . . , ... with primitive devices but there is a training period, the dogs will start , * . . .. . . , . • • • . ° . . TrkT need for a systematic operation to make, mme-cleanng operauons under the UN . . r . ° r the valley safe for the returning program. _ 7 r ■* refugees. Dogs were introduced in USAID- ^ past months> 20 sponsored mme-clcarance operations cows (jonkeys have died on a hill-in October 1989. The then-UN coordi- jQp> sep^iing two villages, in Rukha. nator Sadruddin Agha Khan, who was ^jjnes have caused material losses to responsible for directing the operation, farmers ^ ^ a permanent threat vetoed the use of dogs in UN mine- to ^habitants 0f the area, especially to clearing operations. He is a dog-lover gbij^n and argued that the life of an innocent First Eid under Islamic system The people of Afghanistan cele- for eradication of ignorance and brated the first Eid after establishment poverty. of the Islamic government on June 11. Prof. Rabbani said reconstrucion They prayed for the return of peace and was the government's priority but consolidation of the Islamic warned that the transitional phase of government. the revolution would be the hardest. If The head of the Islamic problems arise, he said, one should not Government, Prof. Mujaddidi, and the be disheartened, head of Leadership Council, Prof. "We should support each other to Rabbani, addressed the nation on TV solve the problem," he said, and radio. The Islamic revolution has many In his address. Prof. Rabbani said opponents at home and abroad, he not-that the Islamic government was estab- ed. But he added that no propaganda or lished at great sacrifice and that it other hostile actions could harm the would be protected at any cost revolution as long as it had a place in He said Jehad had succeeded but the hearts of the people, that the revolution had just begun. The Jami'at leader said Afghans There is a need for change in all as- should not allow ethnic and regional peels of the people’s life, he added. factors to divide the people, and de-The Jami'at leader said the Islamic scribed armed conflict between Hezb-i-go.vemment should protect the rights Wahdat and Ittihad "a tragic develop-and dignity of the people; give freedom ment" which spoiled the happy atmos-to the people within the framework of phere created by the victory of the Islam; rule with justice, and struggle Mujahideen.	US envoy pays visit to Kabul A three-member American delega-' tion, headed by Peter Tomsen, arrived in Kabul on June 14 to discuss the situation with Afghan leaders and to study the possibility of re-opening of the US Embassy in Kabul. Tomsen said the purpose of his visit was to establish formal contacts with the government of Afghanistan. Tomsen has served for more than three years as the US special envoy to the Afghan resistance. During his two-day stay in Kabul, he met with President Mujaddidi, Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood and Foreign Minister Sulaiman Gailani. He delivered a message from President Bush to Prof. Mujaddidi. In his message, the US president assured Mujaddidi of his country's support in reconstruction of Afghanistan. Tomsen expressed hope that peace would come soon to Kabul. He said large-scale assistance to Afghanistan was possible when the security situation had improved. While expressing American commitment to the reconstruction of Afghanistan in general terms, he talked in detail about American assistance to refugees in Pakistan, provision of funds to school and hospilal and American support for demining operations. Tomsen wanted to study the possibility of reopening the US Embassy in Kabul. Washington closed its embassy in Kabul days before the end of the Soviet troop withdrawal in 1989. Several Western countries followed suit. The Americans also spoke to the Afghan leaders about ways to reduce narcotics production, and informed them, of the US aid policy in connection with the drug issue. Tomsen told reporters that the US would contribute to the $180 million reconstruction fund requested by the UN Secretary-General. He said the reconstruction of Afghanistan needed international cooperation.' Tomsen said that in the view of demand for assistance in other parts of the world such as the Balkans and Africa, Afghans should try hard to bring peace to their country as soon as possible so that the assistance needed in Afghanistan is not sent somewhere else.