AFGHANews Vol 6, No 3, February 1,1990, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Comdr. Samiullah Qatrah
Commander Sameyullah Qatra was bom 30 years ago in the village of Sabz in the district of Darwaz. His father, Abdul Latif (a Tajik), was a poor farmer living all his life in Darwaz.
Qatrah completed his primary school education in Sabz at the age of twelve. Then he went to Faizabad to continue his secondary education. He was in grade eleven when the Communists took power in Kabul. Qatrah left school and joined the Mujahideen group from Jami'at in 1978.
Initially he worked with commanders such as Maulawi Abas and Qazi Ahmad Khan. In the later stages, he established his own command in the Koof Valley and became a commander whose effectiveness stood him apart from all other young commanders.
Qatra expanded his command to other nearby villages. He led his groups in many operations against the Soviets
and their puppets. Qatra was appointed as the general commander of Darwaz which borders the Soviet Union and as a consequence comes under very heavy bombardment from the Soviets. Daily life for all citizens in Darwaz is extremely difficult. However, Qatra has successfully set up a number of schools and medical clinics in order to provide services for the local people.
Qatra has adopted the offensive strategy of organizing his Mujahideen into small units for the purpose of attacking enemy posts during the night. This strategy has proved to be successful. His Mujahideen have the reputation of being among the most gallant of all Mujahideen fighting the regime government. As a consequence, Qatra is highly respected in all parts of Badakhshan.
Qatra spends his spare time studying the Holy Quran and Islamic teachings. He is married and has three children.
Commander Saduddin
Commander Saduddin was bom 37 years ago in the village of Juee situated in the district of Darwaz. His father, Aslam, was a poor Tajik farmer and as a consequence Saduddin and his two brothers in their childhood were required to help their father maintain their farm. Saduddin never went to school but did learn the basics of Islam and how to read the Quran in the village's mosque.
Saduddin left his family at a young age to seek employment and a higher standard of living in Taloqan and later in Kunduz. He found ordinary employment and in his free time sought to expand his knowledge of Islam.
In 1978 when the first communist regime took power, Saduddin came back to Darwaz and joined the
Soviet Tajiks are opposed to interference in Afghanistan
An Iranian scholar told BBC Persian Service that Tajiks in the Soviet Union did not like the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
Tooraj Atabaki from Utrecht University of Holland has recently returned from a visit to Doshanbay, the capital of Soviet Tajikistan Republic.
He said they did not want to fight against Afghans with whom they have cultural and historical ties. The Tajiks were happy about the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, he added
Mujahideen from Jami'at Islami. Very soon he became a skilled fighter and was selected as a group commander.
After participating in different operations against the Soviets and the regime forces, he became the commander of a group of about 200 people in his home district
He expanded his influence, captured more weapons and established more bases under his own control. Now he is the commander of one of the bases of Jami'at in Darwaz.
He stays mostly in Juee. He led his forces in the operations at Do Abgi, Ghoghand and Zaghar. He is married
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
*j/j
*	b
A wolf s pup will grow into a wolf even though it be raised among men.
Meaning: Training can not change heredity : or, you cannot change leopard's spots: or, what is bred in the bone will come out in the flesh.
A loin at home, and a fox abroad.
Meaning: A big frog in a little pond becomes a little frog in a big pond: or, every dog is a loin at home.
■ kiSStf fj
They asked the fox,"
Who is your witness?"
He said, "My tail."
Meaning: Collusion is suspected: or, one witness for his own benefit.


Wn . . ... . . , tt, AVMW.SV.', AS .	ASW
The prophet ( peace upon him) said,
"A man should not make Httl man get up from *
seat ( in a
■■■■Bnordu^:
Ills;®?'