j K&iashirtfcov rifles and some 1 hew weapons including one I 2PU arid a mortar.
About l3 Mujahideen were | mounded iij the operation,
i
Na jib's brother talks to world media
2
[
i
-4
t
! *The Mujahideen attacked j some security posts around | Mir-Bacha Koot district on the 25tfe oi jury, as a result,
! three posts were captured 1 and a number of light j weapons were seized, j A militia commander, by | the name of Mehmfc was taken I I prisoner by the Mujahideen,
I
y
S Logar
I
j	'	j
j THE Mujahideen captured | m enemy tee belonging to j the 2i2thMA Battalion in | Fadtehwafe area near the | provincial capital on the I%h j of July. Seventeen light | weapons and some I ammunition were captured j from the base.
| On the same day, the I Mujahideen attacked a BRA ,
| convoy in Mango Khali	i
destroying three APCs and j | killing 15 soldiers.	j
| Aid worker I i killed in | mine blast
j	TWELVE Persons,
I including an sd<3 worker j i from the Horwegien I CammitTee, were killed in I l a land mine explosion in ! Jaj l area of Pektia J province on 20th July.
|	As trad Norton, ^!, a
i Norwegian woman and | Sailurahmaft, a member of the j Norwegian Committeer along j with I 0 other people, were | travelling to the jaji area j belonging to Paktia province I when a land mirse blew up | their vehicle killing all the | occupants, i The body oi the j Norwegian woman was taken to J Peshawar and was air lifted co [ her home country. Norway, I
I--	-	—	—	,	■	-	—
THE brother of the head of the puppet regime of Kabul, who joined the Mujahideen tmi year along with his family, has recently came to Pakistan and s&ay seek political asylum abroad,
Seddi nullah Rahi, after contacting Mujahideen on the 22th of October 1957, defected to the PaaJsMf valley along with his wife and two children.-
He spent the first few months in the valley and the rest in Farfchar district of Takh&r province, With the opening of the Northern route, he and his family travelled to Pakistan with the 1 im caravan of Mujahideen,
in a press conference in Peshawar on the 15th of August which was attended by 50 foreign and Pakistani journalists, Sediauiiah, in response to a question regarding his defection said "due to ideological and political differences with Najife and his regime, I defected and joined the Mujahideen."
"Najib himself has several times said that without Soviet support his resf&iiae will not be able to survive. 4 he quoted,
Seddiqutlah disclosed that N&iib is a brutal snd selfish man who even poisoned his father while he was sick in a hospital, because he was constantly criticizing NaUb and his regime.
He further disclosed that when he was in West Germany some years ago he wanted to seek political asylum. But, he said, he was kidnapped by the KGB agents to E. Germany from where he was taken back	I
to Kabul,	1
'Nsiib claims having	j
strong army of half a million	j
but I think the figure is much Tower than what he says and the army's morale has	!
dropped considerably. He Is	1
now hared of any initiatives	j
to prop up his crumbling	j
regime, “	j
Sediqullah may seek	\
political asylum abroad or	j
stay in Pakistan with his	j
family as they wish.	j
i
1
TB kills 70 in Faryab province
ACCORDING to reports and j a witness, over the past few \ months, 70 persons including j women, old men, and children died and hundreds of others are suffering monthly is Law lash, district of Faryab province, because of Tuberculosis,
The witness, who is the local representative of the Mujahideen, says that, besides TB, about 100 to 1?0 children lost their lives due to measles, People in areas like Bate* Bara, Nistan and
Angoorak are also affected by the TB disease.
Both diseases are spreading to a frightening degree as there is no doctor and proper medicine to prevent them md most el the victims are quarantined fearing a further spread,” the witness said,
Faryab Mujahideen have appealed to relief agencies for medical help in order to curb the diseases and prevent them fromsp reading-