	
	
AFGHANews
PO Box 264, Pwhsww-Pekistan Tel: 41381
1 Editorial
Commanders1 meeting makes vital decisions
THE decisive made by the fifth meeting ®f the commanders belonging to the Supervisory Council of the North (SCN) will have far-reaching effects on the political and military developments in Afghanistan,
The meeting which was held its Ferkhar valley itm June five to June i % was presided fey Commander Masood, the Chairman of the SCN and attended by delegates from tea provinces.
SCN was formed as a part of JamJat's organization in November 1461 and since its creation has helped bring cooperation among the Mujahideen and has provided the ground for the training of the Mujahideen and the development of military and civil super structures is a large area of strategic importance.
The military decisions of the meeting which include the formation of a regular army, talcing steps to move from a defensive phase to an offensive one. intensification of fighting against the enemy, training of officers and soldiers and reorganizing logistics systems will have a profound effect on the overall military situation.
In Political and administrative fields, the creation of four zones, the implementation of Islamic Sharia in the liberated areas, the formation of a Council of elders and scholars, the format lea of a high court in each zone and the collection of a population census to help planning will consolidate the position of the Mujahideen among the people and give the achievement of the Resistance ^ permanent nature.
Educational and cultural activities will pave the road for opening more schools, Installing a radio station and publishing a paper. !t will make the people able to learn and have access to infermation.
Formation of the economic committee to help the refugees, increase farm products, cultivate mare land by digging new channels and repairing old ones mt& building road© and bridges Is a step forward towards self-sufficiency and the rehabilitation of the refugees and reconstruction of the country.
The meeting of SCN is mking place when the Soviets have started withdrawing their forces from Afghanistan. This has changed the situation which requires a new approach and planning.
The SCN meeting was of the view that the withdrawal of Soviet troops has created a new situation which will push" the Resistance to a new phase.lt believes that to move from a defensive phase to an offensive one, a new organizational structure is needed. Formation of the regular array is ons of the requirements.
Since the work must be done with speed it exerts tremendous pressure on the SCN, especially Commander Mas cod who is the archit&cht of the system.
As usual the SCN has taken proper steps In the fight direction. In the past, its success in the war against the enemy garrisons earned it good reputation. The people have believed what the SCN promised them and have fully cooperated to make It successful.
In this critical time SCN has become the center hope for the people in an important area, ft is hoped SCN * call for bettor unity, raising the level of fighting against the enemy and invitation from the educated Afghans to participate In the reconstruction of their country will meet with a positive response,
jam! at will do what it can to implement the decisions made fey the meeting or commanders coming from 16 provinces and hope that all the Mujahideen belong to other parties also cooperate with the SCN.
Soviets involved in slave trade
THE Soviets have started to sell puppet regime s soldiers and officers to the Resistance at a nominal price.
Selling Communist soldiers have taken place in Baghiaa and Kunduz provinces after the withdrawal of Soviet troops started.
Soviet soldiers were used to stealing spare tyres and other equipment and selling them st cheap prices.
Now that they have a limited time in Afghanistan they want to make more money by selling the puppet soldiers and officers.