AFGHANews Vol 8, No 15, August 1, 1992, page ©
Editorial ___________________
Afghans need emergency aid
Afghans heed foreign assistance to overcome food and fuel shortages, and to deal with the massive return of refugees.
Fourteen years of war have devastated the country and destroyed its economy. A harsh winter is approaching, and there are already shortages of food, medicine and fuel, both in the capital and the countryside. Thousands of homesick refugees pour back into the country every day. They need additional assistance to rebuild their houses and resume Lheir lives in their villages and towns.
Foreign assistance can be channeled ihnough the UN, non-govemmcnial organizations and bilateral agreements with the Islamic government. The UN Secretary-General has appealed for $180 million for aid to Afghanistan but the international community's response, to this appeal has not been encouraging.
Aid sent by friendly countries have had mostly symbolic importance. A few hundred tons of ghee, flour and sugar will have little effect on the food situation. Foreign countries and agencies give the following reasons for their reluctance to give aid to the Islamic government:
•	Lack of security
•	Political instability
•	Drug production
We should admit that the security situation in the country is not very good, the political situation is shaky and there are people who grow drugs within Afghanistan's territory.
But raising these issues now is premature, and conditioning aid on the establishment of law and order is putting the cart before ihe horse.
Security is the foremosi concern of the Islamic government right now. The situation is gradually improving. In Kabul, eight of 12 security districts have been activated and the rest will begin to function in coming days.
While the government is sincere in its efforts to bring security to the capiLal, it needs time and resources to do so. Refusing aid will hurt the government's efforts to improve security in the capital.
Political stability will follow the establishment of law and order. All the parties are committed to forming a representative government in Afghanistan. Implementation of the Peshawar Accord can provide a base for the political process to achieve this goal. There is a government in place in which all the Mujahideen groups are prarticiparing.
Opium cultivation in Afghanistan has a long history. The government has announced its readiness to combat drug trafficking and production. In order to do this, a strong central government must be formed in Kabul. The present government is sincere in its desire to combat drugs, but it needs rime and assistance to extend its control to the areas where it is being grown.
The government in Kabul faces two other major problems:
Winter is approaching. The government has to stock enough food, medicine and fuel to enable the people to survive the long, harsh winter.
The second problem is the return of peat numbers of refugees from Pakistan and Iran. By the end of the year there will be one million more mouths to feed in a country wracked by shortages of food and fuel.
In order to stabilize the situation and avoid a human tragedy during the coming winter, friendly countries who helped the people of Afghanistan during the years of Jehad should support the new Islamic government generously.
More than other countries, Russia and other members of the Commonwealth of Independent States have a moral obligation towards the people of Afghanistan, a nation to which they laid waste. CIS states have lumber, oil and other commodities that can help the people to rebuild their houses and keep them warm during the winter.
Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood has appointed three deputy defense ministers, a move to involve more parries in establishing law and order in the capital.
The deputy defense ministers arc Gulzarak, of Iuihad lslami, a Pushioon from Pakria; Colonel Abdul Hakim of Hczb lslami (Hikmatyar), a Tajik from Kapisa; and Sayyed Hasan from Hczb Wahdal, a Hazara from Ghazni.
He also has appointed Mir Anjamuddin, a pilot, as the new commander of the air force.
Activities for the formation of a new cabinet arc continuing. The ministers of defense, interior, education, foreign affairs and chief justice will keep their portfolios based on the Peshawar agreement
Despite Hezb's participation, Hikmatyar continues to issue statements condemning the Islamic government In an interview with BBC he said the government was un-lslamic and that his party would not lay down arms until a true Islamic government had been formed in Kabul.
He criricizccLMasood for failing to bring security to the city. He said forces of the interior ministry, not the defense ministry, should be made responsible for law and order in Kabul.
He also criticized Prof. Rabbani indirectly, describing him as a leader forced on the people. But although he calls the government in Kabul un-Islamic, he has authorized Abdul Saboor Farid, a prominent member of his party, to take part as prime minister. He continues to seek further concessions in government for his party.
Hezb's claims that General Dostum has sent 10,000 fresh troops to Kabul inspired popular alarm about further armed clashes between Hczb and Dostum's men, and possible further rocket attacks by Hezb on civilians.
A Dostum spokesman said the level of his troops had not increased and that those brought from the north would merely replace those withdrawn recently on regular duty rotation.
Prime Minister Farid's absence from TV for a few days gave strength to rumors that he had been secretly recalled by his party. But the real reason was illness, which forced him to cancel his appointments for three days.