AEGHAHews Vofl Ho i8, September 13,1988, Page 6
j Editorial"
Buying time for the regime is a calculated step. The Soviets think that time is in favor of the Kabul regime. The longer It can hold on, the better the chances of its survival would he. There is some truth in this way of thinking. The Geneva accords submitted the puppet regime as a side in the conflict. This has put the regime on favorable political ground.
If the regime which is a member of the UN and NAM is net defeated quickly the Soviets hope that some countries will recognize it, this development will tilt the political balance in its favor.
It is a testing time for the Resistance, for the government and the people of Pakistan and for all those who would like to see an honorable peaceful solution of the Afghanistan issue. The Mujahideen must act promptly and properly to bring the regime to its knees. United action is the key to this achievement.
it is also a testing time for the government and people of Pakistan. They have to stand firm in defending their principled positions and render any possible help to Afghans to exercise their rights for self determination.
Peace will come to Afghanistan if the puppets who are the product of blatant aggression are m more in control of the destiny of the Afghan nation.
The world also has responsibilities to put pressure on the Soviets to stop its acts of aggression in Afghanistan, and leave the people of Afghanistan to decide their future.
The world must not forget that the presence of Soviet troops in Afghanistan is m immoral and Illegal act and the killing of one million Afghans is a crime which the Soviets have committed. They are still killing Afghans and continuing to impose a regime on the people of Afghanistan which is disliked by Afghans.
The terms of the Geneva agreement should not be used to justify aggression and continue crimes against Afghans.
Moral and diplomatic pressure exerted by the world community played a vital role In forcing the Soviets to withdraw some of their forces. Continuation of pressure to complete their withdrawal is very important. □
Prof. R abb an i promises equal opportunities for women
This interview was conducted by Tony Davis of Asiaweek
Q. Is Shariah law suitable given Afghanistan's tribal way of life?
A. True, traditional and tribal customs exist. But the Afghan nation has always been ready to give up such customs in the interests of the Shariah. Kabul's efforts to attract tribes on the basis of tribal and traditional interests have failed. People fought on the basis of the
Quran and the Shariah; they have not given these up.
Q. What is the difference between 'fundamentalists” and “moderates”?
A, I don't believe in this distinction. Everyone is a "fundamentalistL who believes in the Quran as the revealed word of God. We have differences over matters of form, not substance. For example, in our relations with
the West, some say it is not % good thing to travel there; others say it's good. These are tactical differences.
Q. Would a post-war Islamic system be a one-party system?
A. A multi-party system is permissible within an Islamic framework, but it doesn't imply a political race for narrow partisan interests, Rather, there should be effective control over and criticism of the work of ! government. Parties should propose (alternative! plans and platforms; if these are generally accepted, that party could became part of the government or form its own government.
Q. Can an Islamic Afghanistan accommodate the traditional Leya Jifgah (Grand Council)?
A. There is a precedent in Islam for a council of respected citizens and elders. Such a council has points in common with the Loya Jirgah but not as it was constituted in the past, in most cases, those participating were chosen based on the interests of the ruling family or government of the day. We need a reformed Loya jirgah.
Q. How do you see the role of women in an Islamic Afghanistan?
A. While there are differences in physiology and nature which cannot be changed, Islam views both men and women as human beings with equal rights. Women cannot be deprived of education or of participating in the social affairs or pusuing a career. They should be permitted to do whatever they are capable of, provided they don't forget their duties in the home.
Q. Do you foresee problems with the Shia minority?
A. I hope not. We wilt definitely consider the fights of our Shia brothers. In the past they deprived of much. This won't be the case In the future, D