AFGHANews Vol5, No 3, February 1,1989, page 7
Refugees asked to reconstruct Afghanistan
From page ( 7)
and sisters are invited to participate fully in the future of their country. The door of the Mujahideen offices and the way to the fronts are open to them.
Prof. Rabbani asked Afghan intellectuals in exile to help the Mujahideen by every possible means. They could give advice and lend their knowledge in reconstruction of their country.
Prof. Rabbani stressed the need for self-reliance in rebuilding Afghanistan and the refugee community could play a vital role in that aspect
The Mujahideen leader rejected the negative propaganda against the Mujahideen that they were against education in general and education of women in particular.
He said different Mujahideen parties have opened schools in Peshawar and there are schools for both girls and boys. "The Mujahideen will never deprive women of their right to education. The Mujahideen are not against education, they are against atheism and propagation of destructive ideas under the guise of education," Prof. Rabbani said.
Prof. Rabbani said that Islam respected die right of women and that the Mujahideen want to make Afghanistan a country with high educational standards 6
He said that during his trip to the
North, he saw schools functioning where there were no schools in the past
About the peaceful transfer of power, Prof. Rabbani said that the Mujahideen had proposed formation of a Shoora (Council) and holding of elections. This is very new among the liberation movements. "Guerrilla movements do not go to the people to ask their opinion about the type of government and composition of the administration. The Mujahideen have the strength to take power. Despite all that, they are discussing formation of a Shoora and holding of elections. This shows their commitment to give rights to all sections of Afghan society to determine their future" Prof. Rabbani added.
He criticized those people among Afghans in exile who claim that they were not given a right to participate in Jehad. He said the Mujahideen gave them every right to fight the Soviets and to capture as many guns as they wished.
Prof. Rabbani advised the Afghan community in America to preserve Islamic values and Afghan culture, and to try to pass them to their children. He emphasized the decisive role of mothers in bringing up their children as true Muslims and patriotic Afghans.
Afghanistan not Lebanon
From page (8)
people.
"We will not allow conflicts or let our brothers kill brothers," he said. "But during the transitional stage Afghanistan will witness a series of difficulties. This is not new and it has always been the case in other social upheavals."
Prof. Rabbani also stressed that Afghanistan's future government will not be "useless nationalist and secular" but an Islamic one with the participation of all religious and ethnic groups.
The Mujahideen representatives in the seminar met Prime Minister Moosavi on January 15. Moosavi hoped that the Afghan Mujahideen would recognize the value of unity in their struggle for independence.
The Foreign Minister of Iran said to the seminar that Iran would provide technical assistance to the future government in Afghanistan.
He praised the role of Pakistan in helping the Mujahideen and said that there were close contacts between Iran and Pakistan and that the two countries had identical views on the issue.
The representative of the Iran-based coalition of Afghan Mujahideen also participated in the conference.
The Mujahideen leaders also held talks with the Iranian president and the Speaker of the Majlis ( Parliament).
Panjshir uprising of 1975
they had treated the Mujahideen. A lot of them repented for shouting at them and not helping them. They were impressed by the Mujahideen's restrain not to shoot at the people while they were treated badly.
Night is the time for rest, even for those who have been defeated. We six men, also had a good sleep in a cave up in the mountains. The next day we could get some food and started to move more carefully.
For six days we were wandering in the mountains with no food, no warm clothes and being followed by the enemy. this was a testing time. Masood proved to be a kind friend and have the abilities to lead. At the end, it was decided that I and my brother, Kefayatullah, who was killed in the war in 1979, would return to our town and hide there until contacts were made with Masood.
Two months in hiding was an ex-
From page (6)
traordinary experience. Our contact was limited to my twelve-year-old brother and mother.
My young brother, Payenda Mohammad, who was killed in the war at age 17 in 1980, took care of us in those difficult days. He provided us with information about what was going on and established contact with Masood through a friend.
The people coming to our house told strange stories about us. They fabricated all these stories to please the family. According to the stories, we were seen in different parts of Afghanistan wearing strange clothes. . Probably the wrong stories misled the government and we were safe in our house less than a kilometer from the government headquarters.
In isolation, we started to look at the problem from a critical angle. Why
was such action taken? Was it an independent action or part of bigger plan? I knew that everything had gone wrong but I was waiting to ask the questions of the right people.
After two months we went to Kabul and from there to Peshawar. It was a good_thing to reach safety. In Peshawar, the questions that we had in mind were asked by the friends who had arrived earlier, and those responsible for the bad planning were not ready to admit their role. This led to friction and finally to a split within Jami'at Islami Afghanistan.
The Panjshir defeat also had positive aspects. We started to find answer to the complicated political and military questions. Panjshir experience of 1975 taught Masood valuable lessons which were used later.
Life in exile will be discussed in the next issue of Afghanews.