flFBHPH KiWS VOL. Ill, HO. 14, t5f?t 1967 PftCE 3
 policies from supporting the cause of freedom to support of the regime, put the resistance in a diff icult position.
 The real target of the Soviet penetration at the moment is OIC. Soviets have some close friends in this organization and are trying to make more by exploiting the Gulf situation and Irangate scandal The 0.I.C summit in Kuwait was a weak one as far as Afghanistan issue was concerned arid that was as the result of the policy of Kuwait government not to make the Soviets angry. Protection of oil tankers is a service off ered by the Soviets to Kuwait and must be paid in the form of ignoring an invasion and the suffering of millions of Muslims
 H PRESSURE OH PAKISTAN
 Pakistan being a country which hosts a large number of refugees and actively supports « the struggle of the people of Afghanistan, is a target of Soviet subversive activities Although the enmity of the Soviets towards Pakistan is not new, the new situation has given it more importance. Co-ordinated efforts by India, puppet regime and Soviet Union to de-stabilise Pakistan is continuing. They make use of local separatist group? and communist elements to propagate their aims They try very hard to blame Afghan refugees for every thing which happens in this country without bothering themselves to give evidence. Thanks to the patience and hospitality of our Pakistani brothers their designs are foiled.
 I CONCLUSION
 Afghans are in favor of peace They need peace to return to their country and live a normal life. To do this they have minimal conditions:
       a - Unconditional withdrawal of Soviet troops, b - Right for self-determination.
 The response of the Soviets to this simple demand, so far, has been negative. The war has escalated since Gorbachev has come to power, more people have been killed and more people have been driven out of the country. The political program of Soviets is directed towards deceiving the world public opinion and consolidation of the puppet regime. They use a new language but say the same old things What they are offering does not lead to real freedom of Afghanistan but makes the situation more complicated
 The key to the solution of the Afghan issue is in the hands of the Soviets. If they guarantee the withdrawal of their troops, we guarantee the return of peace in a free, non-aligned Islamic Afghanistan.
                               THE LOSS OF A PROMINENT JAMIAT COMMANDER
 We have received the sad news of the martyrdom of Com Safiullah Alkali, a prominent Jamiat commander in Herat province.
 When Com. Saffiullah was returning from the border town of Haji Abad to join his family who are living in Iran, his car was ambushed by a. group of armed men on Taibat-Turbat Road ( inside Iran) on 7/7/1987. Commander Saffiullah and two of his Mujahideen were immediately martyred while another Mujahid was seriously injured. The criminals were not immediately recognized but it is believed that communist elements ( both Irani and Afghan ) had a hand behind the plot.
 Commander Saffiullah started his armed struggle in Herat from the beginning of communist coup. He had many capabilities in fighting and organizational work and his death is a big loss for all the Mujahideen, especially Jamiat Islami Afghanistan. He was a graduate of the faculty of science of Kabul university.