AFGHAN NEWS
So 18
11-11-1985
.5-59
                                    2
   One enemy soldier was killed and others captured. One Mujahid was wounded during the operation.
   17-10-85
   Mujahideen of Jamiat in co-operation, with Mujahideen from other parties attacked the militia posts of Lalpoor sub-district. Fighting continued for five hours. Three militias were, killed and two others wounded. One Mujahid was injured, during this operation.
   17-10-85
   Mujahideen attacked enemy militias who had set an ambush against refugees in Kama district, two enemy soldiers were, wounded and one killed. Mujahideen captured one single-fire rocket launcher.
   21-10-85
   Mujahideen of Jamiat in Ghosta district clashed, with the puppo-t-regime' s militias. Two militias were wounded. The Mujahideen puf-fered no casualties.
   29-IO-85
   Mujahideen clashed with enemy forces in .thd Garo area of Goshta district. Fighting continued for several hours. Enemy planes pounded the.’ suspected Mujahideen positions* The Mujahideen loot one man and three of them were wounded. Some shops in the area wore sot on fireby the enemy,
                             WARDAK PROVINCE 28-10-85                   ---------
   Mujahideen from Jamiat in Sayed Abad district attacked ah enemy convoy on the Kabul-Kandahar highway. One APC was destroyed and six . people including Captain Zulmai were among those who wore killed. Three soldiers were captured by the Mujahideen, but were released on the orders of the local judge. In this operation Mujahideen captured 9 AK-A7s and one PK-nachinagun,
   The same convoy was also ambushed, by Karakat Mujahideen, Two trucks were, set on fire knd one ZPU-2 with one truck were captured. Mujahideen of Mahaz attacked the came convoy in Haft-Asia area of Sayed Abad as .a result of which three trucks full of food, wore- cap- -tured by Mujahideen.
                           SOyiET_DIRTT_GAME
   Mujahideen sources have found that the Soviats-havo a hand behind drug trafficking. The Khad has boon .given the job . of. organizing • cells which would smuggle hashish and heroin through Pakiotah and ■ Irani to the western markets. The Soviets have..given permission to grow opium and hashish in the occupied areas of Afghanistan. Militia bands in the WestoScuth, South-East and. East border areas of Afghanistan have, a free-hand in this business.