AFGHANews Vol 6, No 10, May 15,1990, page ©
Shoora engineers complete Paryan Road construction
The Panjshir Reconstruction Committee has completed building of a road connecting Dasht-o-Rivat to Paryan, in the upper part of the valley.
Engineer Kamaluddin, the head of the reconstruction committee in Peshawar, said the 28-kilometer-long road has made life easier for the people df Paryan. In the past they went to Dasht-o-Rivat or Andarab to purchase their needs. Now, the local shopkeepers can transport their goods on trucks, which is faster and cheaper. As a result of the road the difference in prices of commodities between Paryan and Dasht-o-Rivat has decreased.
The Reconstruction Committee has built a bridge on the Khawak river and plans to build a bridge on the Tul river.
Eng. Kamaluddin said that ordinary tools like picks and shovels have been used to build the road, and this is the reason for the length of time the construction has taken. The only modem machine used in the construction woe small rock drills.
Engineer Enayatullah supervised the construction work and Mohammad Mir acted as a foreman.
Eng. Kamal said the Reconstruction Committee plans to connect the Paryan road to Andarab valley, Baghlan Province, through Khdwak Pass; and to Kuran-o- Munjan, Badakhshan Province, through Anjuman Pass.
The Reconstruction Committee has started building a road from the Pakistan border to Kuran-o-Monjan. The road has passed the famous Dora Pass on the Pakistan border and new construction work will Start when the snowmelts.
Kamaluddin said one of the problems he is facing is construction of bridges which could be used by vehicles. "We are wodring on designing a model suspension bridge which will be made from material available inside Afghanistan,” he said.
If the road from the Pakistan border to Panjshir is completed, it could be used to transport humanitarian assistance to the people in the North. It will be the safest and shortest route from Pakistan to Afghanistan.
The head of Panjshir Reconstruction Committee said his organization has completed construction of a two-kilometer long road in Parandeh valley and work on Dara road, 20 kilometers long, is half completed.
He said while the construction costs of Paryan and Parandeh roads have been provided partially by the Supervisory Council and partially borrowed, VITA has provided some funds for the construction of. the Dara road.
Kamaluddin said the Panjshir main road, which is 80 kilometers long, has been repaired, Along this road three bridges have been built, and work on other bridges and culverts will start when funds are available.
The Panjshir Reconstruction Committee has helped the local people to build seven footbridge^ over the Panjshir River connecting the east side of die valley to the west bank. These bridges were destroyed during the Soviet occupation of the valley.
The Committee plans to build three suspension bridges, usable by pick-up trucks, on the main Panjshir River.
Eng. Kamaluddin said a major problem in Panjshir is the rebuilding of houses. As a result of the war the valley is facing shortages of wood for construction purposes. A solution to the problem is the use of pie-fabricated concrete beams and slabs. Use of concrete slate for culverts has already started but the Committee wants to build a pre-cast slab and beam factory in Rukha. Negotiations with some relief organizations in Peshawar to this end have already begun.
Panjshir	Reconstruction
Committee has also started work on the construction of three new irrigation canals in three different parts of the valley.
If these projects are completed, new areas will be irrigated, and more water will be available for the irrigation of the present farms.
The Construction Committee has build an auto repair workshop to meet the need of the valley. The new building housing the workshop is under construction. The workshop, which will be manned by experienced mechanics, will also repair tractors, bulldozers, rock drills and other available machinery.
It should be added that 80 percent of the valley was totally destroyed as a result of the repeated Soviet offensives and occupation. Panjshir was a green and well-populated valley before the war. Most of its population are now internal refugees.
Reconstruction work and a mine-clearing program is necessary to enable the refugees to return.
' / / / / s / / / / / / / << /•
is renamed
Wmmm
SAZA, a communist faction which supports the Kabul regime, has changed its name to NIDA to disassociate itself from communist policies of die past
SAZA, die Organization of Toilers of Afghanistan, was renamed NIDA, the Movement for Democracy of Afghanistan. ,
In a communique broadcast by Kabul Radio, the party claimed that the new name is adopted to reflect the new situation in Afghanistan.
SAZA, a faction of the Setam-i-Milli (National Depression Party) is headed by Mahbubullah Koshani.
SAZA became active when the Kabul regime allowed formation of new parties . This party was originally part of the People's Democratic Party.
SAZA promoted a Soviet-style communist revolution in Afghanistan. The faction has some influence in the north of Afghanistan and has established some garrisons along die border with the Soviet Union. SAZA suffered a major setback in Takhar province when the Mujahideen from Jami'at drove it out of Taloqan in 1978.
The change of riame is part of a Soviet-sponsored compaign to make different communist factions look more democratic and less communist The ruling party under Najib is-also preparing for such cosmetic changes to decrease popular opposition and make it acceptable to the outside world.
iKdp us pubtisft-WFQtfS&fezvs!
(PCease send your donations to tfie fottozoing account numBcr:
Account 9{o. 735-37 (HdBiB 'Bank.Ltd.
‘Iehkcd (Bcda, (Pesharvar (Pakistan