AFGHAN ilEUS UOl. UJ, HD. 3,       1/2/1968, FflSE
    Ryzhkov's visit and the presence of ifae Mujahideens representative once mors drew the attention of the media towards the big Russian-made human tragedy in Afghanistan Articles were published in the papers of the coutrtes and radio and television in the two cowries gave the opportunity for the Mujahideens representative to inform the people about the latest military and political developments. Public meetings and demonstrations were also organized by the people of the two countries to shew their support for the just cause of the people of Afghanistan and their disapproval of the continued occupation of a small country by a superpower .
    Government officials and prominent political figures of the two countries were informed about the views of the Mujahideen on tfae situation
    The issue of Afghanistan was raised at high levels by the leaders of the two countries and the Soviets may once more have repeated their public position which is not very convincing After two years of tails about peace, the Soviets have lost momentum La their propaganda offensive Now every body expects the Soviets to take practical steps and end Use occupation of Afghanistan.
    Although Afghanistan is not a new event and has not caused an outcry similar to the anti-war movement of Vietnam, still the people and governments raise the question on different occasions and embarrass the Soviets for their atrocities against the Afghan people.
    As long as the Soviets continue their coloniaiistic war in Afghanistan, they will have difficulty in convincing the rest of the world of their good intensions for peace Small countries sharing borders with the Soviets have to be concerned about the continued military involvement of the Soviets in Afghanistan.
    The people and governments of the two countries want an end to the Soviet invasion. They are not alone, all peace-loving nations of the world want the Soviets out of
    Afghanistan.
                                             STOP BOMBING AFGHANS
    On January 1st., a three member delegation presented a protest letter to the Soviet embassy in Stockholm asking for an end to the bombing of Afghan people.
    The letter was signed by *>0,000 people coming from differed parts of Sweden and belonging to different walks of life The event was major newTs for the electronic ana pnnt »nediaaf the country.
    The delegation who handed the protest letter to the officials of the Soviet embassy in Stockholm was composed of the represiative of the Swedish Committe for Afghanistan, the representative of the Peace and Arbitration Society of Sweden and the leader of the Liberal Party of Sweden The event was a major victory for the solidarity movement and the cause of freedom but a source of embarrassment and frustration for the Soviets.
                                    A NEW FILM ON AFGHANISTAN
   French television will soon telecast a new documentary film about Afghanistan. The film which is called "Massoud: portrait dun chef Afghan" has been made by Ckristaphe de Poafiily. This is the third documentary film, 'which Christophs has made about the war in Afghanistan.
   The film shows the development which has taken place in North-Eastern Afghanistan under the leadership of commander Masood. janiial cameramen have provided the footage of the attacks against th e two enemy garrisons in the North
   It is hoped that this 5a minute film will be shown in a dozen countries