ATOHAHetre Voll No SB, September 15-1988, Page A
who s who in the Mujahideen
Commander Arif
SABIQ Noorf known as Arif Khan, was born in a Fushtoon family In Zakhail village in Kunduz province 1951.
Arif Khan studied upt© 12th grade in the High School of Shirkhaa. * Years after completion of his studies he was then given a job to work as statistics officer. After two years, he became manager of an agricultural bank in Imam Sahib." said his causin Was it Noor who works in the Advisory Board of Jami'at in Peshawar.
After the Soviet invasion of 1979, Arif Khan, took refuge in Pakistan, In 1930 he went back along with 60 Mujahideen to Badafchsfc&a to fight the enemy and stayed there for two months.
"At the end of 1931 he was sent by jami’at along with 30 Mujahideen to Kunar province to participate in the operation of Asmar DRA garrison which finally fell into the hands of the Mujahideen. From Kunar he went to Andarab District where he worked with the late
SCHOLARS, diplomats and political analysts of different countries expressed the need for continuing support for the Afghan struggle in a meeting of the International People s Solidarity Conference on Afghanistan' which was held on 24-26th August in Jakarta. Indonesia.
In the meeting the scholars praised the courage and determination of the Afghan people in their struggle for freedom. They felt the need to put pressure on the Russians to complete their withdrawal of troops.
Commander Zablhullah on a joint front formed by the Mujahideen of the three provinces of Mazar, Kunduz and Baghian. remembered Wasil Noor, .
Later it was decided that Arif be sent to Kunduz to help organize the Mujahideen. In Qunduz he worked closely with the late known Commander Arbafe Haider.
Arif Khan has about 1,500 armed men who are active in and around the city of Qunduz and some districts like Goortaipa and Chard ar&.
He is runing a civil administration having strong command over law and order. Arif Khan is a member of the Supervisory Council of the North (SCN) for which he attended a meeting this year.
Arif Khan played a key role in liberating Qunduz city recently. DRA radio and TV have launched extensive propaganda against him and other commanders involved in the liberation of Qunduz.
Arif Khan is married and has two sons. G
It was also stressed that the Afghan people should be given every possible support to gain their freedom. A delegation of the Afghan Resistance was also present in the meeting.
An ironic incident which happened in the conference was that a Soviet diplomat entered the conference hall without being invited. He was asked to leave but returned the next time. When he was denied access to the conference hall, he stayed outside the hall for 45 minutes. 0
Meeting asks for coutnter measures against Sovietization
A seminar on Afghanistan cal led for preparing a comprehensive reconstruction of Afghanistan on the line of Marshal plan1,
A two-day seminar on the theme the "Future of Afghanistan; An overview” was organized by the Mecca-based Muslim World Congress.
The Muslim World Congress was founded 60 years ago to defend the freedom of the people, It has observer status in the U.N.
Several Pakistani scholars read out their academic papers in the seminar. Dr. Inamallah Khan who presided over the seminar urged the Islamic countries to provide scholarships to Afghan youth to counter the Soviet brain-washing of the Afghan students.
Dr. Mar oof Dawalibi, president of the World Muslim Congress said that the struggle for building a new Afghanistan will be a bigger task than its liberation.
The study group of the Congress paid rich tributes to the Afghan people for resisting Soviet aggression and lauded the bravery of the Mujahideen.
Mr. Dawalibi revealed that a delegation of the congress met with the high-ranking Soviet officials in Moscow and discussed with them the Afghanistan issue.
Being concerned about its image in the Muslim world because of the invasion of Afghanistan, the Soviet Union has tried to put a compromising face with the Islamic organizations. The invitation of the Muslim World Congress delegation is in line with this policy. Q
Jakarta Conference backs Mujahideen struggle