AFGHANews Vol 7, No 6, March 15,1991, page ©
believers and hypocrites await Ramadhan for different reasons
The holy month of Ramadhan has started. All Muslims, except for children, the sick and travellers, have to abstain from eating, drinking and sex from dawn to sunset In order to observe a complete fast, one should also abstain from saying or doing anything vain.
Observing Ramadhan fulfills one of Allah's commands, which is great honor for a Muslim to do. If a person observes Ramadhan in the manner Islam recommends, his soul will be purified; he will gain more self-control and will be more attentive to sufferings of the sick and hungry in the community. Recitation of the whole Quran in special nightly prayers( Taraweh) during this month will remind Muslims of their religious obligations.
The obligatory payment of a certain amount of food (or money) to the poor at the end of Ramadhan, is a practical demonstration of teachings of Ramadhan, and the celebration of Eid at the end of Ramadhan is a social occasion with an important spiritual and humane dimension.
While Ramadhan is a time for worship and purification of the soul for true believers, it is a month of hypocrisies for the non-believers in the Islamic communities.
The vast majority of Afghans are practicing Muslims. The fast is observed all over the country. Religion is such a dominating force in Afghanistan that the communist rulers of the Kabul regime have been forced to adopt an Islamic face in public. Communist leaders visit mosques during
Ramadhan, accompanied by cameramen, to gain publicity. Qaris (Holy Quran Reciters) are invited from "progressive" Arab countries like Iraq, Libya, Yemen and Syria to take part in international competitions of Quran recitation. Najib generally grants amnesty to some prisoners and declares a cease-fire. The regime Prime Minister,
Khaliqyar, is the master of hypocrisy. He has been preparing the ground for Ramadhan propaganda for several months.
Exploitation of this holy month by rulers of Afghanistan has a long history. Zahir Shah and Daud sent messages on the occasion and released some prison-os, though they and most of their family members did not observing Ramadhan or offer regular prayers. They did not try to persuad their ranking officials to practice their faith.
Afghans have always missed having leaders who share their beliefs and lead normal lives like the masses. The language, clothing, food and beliefs of the rulers have always been different from those of the common man. This was the major source of problems forcing the ruling circles to indulge in hypocrisy to hide their true nature.
Afghans now have a unique chance to change the situation. If the Mujahideen succeed in toppling the Kabul regime, this would be the first time that the leaders of Afghans will be from among the ordinary masses, sharing their beliefs and their way of life.
Price list of some commodities in Kabul
(March 1,1991)
per seven kilograms per seven kilograms per seven kilograms per seven kilograms per kilogram per kilogram per box each
per gallon
• One US dollar equals 800 Afs. An average official of the Kabul regime earns Afs. 6,000 per month.
Courtesy : MIDI A
1-	Ghee
2-	Potatoes
3-	Rice
4-	Onion
5-	Sugar
6-	Lamb
7-	Matches
8-	Eggs
9-	Kerosene
Afs; 9500 Afs. 750 Afs. 1300 Afs. 1600 Afs. 600 Afs. 1700 Afs. 140 Afs. 75 Afs. 1000
The women's branch of Jami'at
■ The Kabul regime crushed the [uprising by force. Hundreds of people were killed, wounded or thrown
In the i me^ing a considerable I pmber Of refugees, as well as some Iranian women, took part	I
i •••	„	I
| Malik Sherin, A 65-year-old-man from Khost in Paktia province, iwas awarded the rank of general by

I; m
J:|tes and £wd-| als are much cheaper Stan bread a»d
; The Iranian Embassy in Kabul
worth of 2«MX» Afs. to the AJi
•’ •.	*	.•	v	’y	t---j: •	•'

bedclothes to the state-tun Mother
This
P -	p*l*^^^**1
es footed two; shops near the] Ministry of the Interior following an [explosion on Eebmwy ^2. tf*|
^ *'*&** found
empty, *******
KUij
Cross workers kidnapped by a Hezb

***■
the MG, has reamed to Peshawar from a visit to Germany and Libya.. in Ge*tsany,:'.he raet with-some Afghans, to	jf	™
E,- .	.	-	'S .■ I