| 1M THE NAME Or ALMIGHTY ALLAH 1
AFGH ANnews
               A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                   POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                        VOL. Ill, NO. 9, 1/5/1987.
                                       THE HOLY MONTH OF RAMADHAN
 The beginning of May will coincide with the beginning of Raaadhan this year. ' Ramadhan is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar. It is the month in which the Holy Quran was first revealed to prophet Mohammad (P3.U.H.). It is the month in which a Muslim must fast from dawn to dusk according to the command of the Holy . Quran. Islamic fasting means abstention from eating, drinking and sexual intercourse during the day and of course abstention from indecent and thinking, talking and action as well.                        *.
                             f
 Islamic fasting has a great philosophy about which many books have been written. The significance of spiritual, psychological, moral, social, economic and physical aspects of fasting is difficult to fathom. Just to have an idea, here we note some salient significances of fasting.
 Spiritually, fasting puts a Muslim in continuous touch with his Creator. A Muslim fasts only for the sake of the God. Social pressure and other factors that could play some role in Salat (prayer), Zakat (poor-due) and Ha) (pilgrimage to Mecca) have no place whatsoever in making a person keep his fast. Therefore, whenever a muslim is tempted to satisfy his basic natural desires for food, drink and sex and he curtails them, he knows that he is doing this at the Command of his Creator. Thus he remembers Him. praises him, seeks His Help to fulfill his obligations and grows spiritually.
 Psychologically, fasting strengthens a Muslim s willpower and teaches him self-control, self-discipline and patience. The willpower, like other human capabilities, will not develop unless it is put into practice. Daily prayers are one way of practicing the willpower (getting op for prayer early at dawn, for example). But fasting is a much stilTer practice. It also leads to practicing more self-control, self-discipline and having patience during times of adversity and hardship.
 Morally, fasting develops in a Muslim a sound conscience and sympathy with his fellow humans. When a person is true to his God, he will be true to himself and to others. When he loves his Creator, he will love His creation as well. Then he suffers hardship, he will sympathize with those who are suffering and will do something to alleviate their pain.
 Socially, fasting brings about more unity, brotherhood and co-operation among Muslims. When a Muslim fasts, he realizes that at the same moment millions of others are fasting along with him. This develops in him a sense of belonging and social consciousness. He manifests his spirit of brotherhood and co-operation by more participation in daily congregational prayers as well as Tarawaih (a special prayer offered at Ramadhan nights). He invites people for dinner - as encouraged by the Prophet (P.B.U.H.). All the residents of a city or village get together in one or a few central mosques for Eid Prayer at the end of Ramadhan..., and there are many other social functions during Ramadhan or immediately after it.
 Economically, fasting teaches the value of food stuff to well-to-do Muslims and encourages them to be mindfyl of wasting it. It also plays a role in conserving the limited supplies of food. To make a simple calculation, suppose every fasting Muslim conserves only half a kilogram of wheat for each day that he fasts. If 500 million Muslims fast for 30 days in a year, the total conservation will come to 7 5 million tons of wheat in a year!                                                      __________