flFC’fMH WUS uai, H>, HO, 1, i/5/1388, Pfffit S
     and take shelter in caves and tunnels in the mountains. High up in the mountains the weather is extremely cold, fire-fuel is not available and food is scarce. If someone is wounded he has to wait till the next year for the roads to be opened to be sent for further treatment.
     Knowing ail the above problems. Soviets usually launch winter offensives against the Mujahideen-coniroiled areas.
     Life for our people in the Soviet-controlled areas is very difficult toe Except for a few Communists, the majority of poor people in the cities suffer from lack of fuel, proper clothing and food. We have seen that some people smuggle charcoal to Kabul as if it were precious stones, la the cities fuel oil is rationed and load shedding continues for most of the the day and night. The puppet regime launches special offensives around the cities for the purpose of bringing in fire-wood, They cut the fruit trees of the people or destroy the houses and bring the logs, doors and windows to use as fire-wood.
     Our people have suffered eight long winters since the Soviets invaded Afghanistan When will the Soviets leave to let the people resume their normal life? the world is waiting for Soviet action to end this cruel and inhuman imperialistic war.
     Winter also means little coverage of the war in most parts of Afghanistan, dye to the closure of the mountainous routes, few foreign journalists will go to cover the war
                     WILL INF BE LINKED WITH WITHDRAWAL OF SOVIET FORCES
     Before the Superpower's summit started there were a lot of speculations about what some people called it a breakthrough ' in finding a political solution to ? year old conflict la Afghanistan Re&gm Administration while preparing for signing the treaty was telling the world about American strong position on regional issues, especially
     Afghanistan
     IMF was signed. Gorbachev did not have any good news about his little war in Afghanistan and the American Administration did'not .Uni Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan to the signing of an IMF treaty.
     INF has to be ratified by the congress. Will the congress which is a traditional supporter of the Afghan cause link ratification of the INF treaty to the withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan?
     The two issues have a logical connection, Soviet;; cannot be trusted about peace if they continue the occupation of small neighboring country and ignore the demand of the majority of the countries for the withdrawal of their troops Peace cannot be divided between nuclear and conventional.
     Now that Soviets are trying to pose as peace-makers and expect the world to believe them, they should he tested in the case of Afghanistan. A country which has killed more than half of a million people of a small neighboring country and has driven 5 million others into exile can not be trusted to respect any treaty or not to get involved in mass killing somewhere else, whatever the type of weapons.
     We hope that a strong position of the US congress will have a positive effect on the process aimed at finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
                         ISRAELI CRIMES AGAINST THE PEOPLE OF PALESTINE
     The late unrest in the occupied Palestine once more showed the violent way the Israeli authorities deal with defenseless Arabs Tens of demonstrators were killed by bullets fired by the Israeli soldiers and hundred others were injured. A large number of Palestinians also have been arrested by Israel military authorities