----—--------  AFGHANews	Vol5,	No	21,	November 1, 1989, page ©
News
From the battlefields
^ — -------------------- ^
Balkh province
Throughout the past two weeks the Mujahideen have inflicted heavy losses on the enemy while fighting communist
forces.
After the Mujahideen captured dozens of trucks loaded with bombs and foodstuffs, the regime forces launched attacks against the Mujahideen at Khairabad, Singird and Ona Gul. As ^ result of the fighting, about 100 enemy soldiers and officers were either killed or wounded, and ten tanks and armored cars were destroyed.
Sixteen Mujahideen were killed and 24 were wounded in the fighting. The regime forces were supported by the air force. Bombing of Mujahideen positions continues. *
*The Mujahideen under the command of Alam Khan, famous Jami'at commander in Balkh province, attacked an enemy convoy on October 18 in Tangi Tashquxghan.
The road was blocked and the following items were captured.
1-	Tractors, 19
2-	Oil tankers, 7
3-	Trucks loaded with ammunition, 12
4-	Tracks loaded with food stuff,
12
3- Trucks loaded with clothes, 2
6-Armored car, 1
Twenty trucks and the gas station of Khulm district were set on fire. One Mujahid was wounded.
The report did not mention the regime's casualties inflicted. The Salang highway passes through Tangi Tashqurghan, a choke point in a narrow gorge where the Mujahideen ambush enemy convoys.
Kabul province
The Kabul-Jalalabad road is still closed, and repeated attempts by regime forces to open the highway have been foiled by the Mujahideen.
The road was closed on September 24 and remained closed on October 16 when this report was filed.
On October 15, the regime forces launched an attack to clear the mines planted by the Mujahideen on the road. The Mujahideen resisted, and the enemy retreated after losing two tanks and a truck in land-mine explosions.
On October 16, the enemy tried again to open the road but the two-pronged attack was repulsed by the Mujahideen. On the same day, the Mujahideen set fire to an ammunition dump of Mashal Post, which burned for several hours.
The operation to block the road is commanded by Commander Anwar of Jami'at, who enjoys the support of other local parties.
Parwan province
The Mujahideen inflicted heavy losses on the enemy when attacking Bagram Air Base on October 19. In retaliation, the enemy heavily bombed the residential areas, killing and wounding a large number of civilians.
The attack, launched by Jami'at Mujahideen led by Commander Gul Agha Shafaq, destroyed four enemy planes on the ground and killed more than 50 enemy troops, including two high ranking officers.
One junior commander of the Mujahideen, and more than 100 civilians were killed during aerial bombing
of the villages controlled by the Mujahideen.
Logar province
The united forces of the Mujahideen captured part of the enemy garrison in Mohammad Agha district when they launched a driving commando action against it on September 29.
The garrison is situated in Bini Sharafgan on the Kabul-Paktia road. The Mujahideen suipriscd the enemy by driving on two trucks into the garrison.
Trucks were allowed to pass through the garrison on their way to Kabul. At the same time'the outposts of the garrison were attacked with | heavy weapons. Mujahideen supporters within the garrison helped the attackers. As a result, part of the garrison came under control of the Mujahideen, but some of the posts continued to resist.
Ths resistance gave the enemy air force a chance to bomb the base, and enemy long range artillery stationed in different bases heavily pounded the half-liberated garrison. As a result of this bombardment a large number of the enemy troops were killed. The Mujahideen also lost some men and were forced to abandon the garrison.
Enemy reinforcements arrived after several hours and recaptured the garrison.
' As a resit of this fighting one of the Jami'at commanders, Abdul Haq, was killed. Abdul Haq was born 30 years ago in Logar province and had been fighting since 1980.
Mohammad Agha is about 40 kilometers south of Kabul on the Kabul-Paktia highway.
Regime convoy fails to reach Paktia
A regime supply convoy of several hundreds trucks, escorted by tanks and armoured vehicles trying to take supplies to the Gardez and Khost garrisons, was stopped by the Mujahideen outside the security belt of Kabul city.
The convoy started its journey On October 12, but could not pass Logar province because of united action by the Mujahideen.
Reports say that the regime air force and long-range rockets bombed the Mujahdieen areas heavily, inflicting losses on civilians and property.
At the beginning of the current year die Soviets transported supplies to Khost by land, after weeks of heavy fighting.
The Khost and Gardez garrisons are usually resupplied by air. Most of the supplies are parachuted down to the garrisons.