AFGHANews Vol 5, No 24, December 15,1989, page
©1
Prof.B.Rabbani opens reconstruction seminar
Prof. Buihanuddin Rabbani, the Reconstruction Minister of the AIG, on November 22 in Peshawar opened a 3-day seminar which discussed the rehabilitation of the refugees and the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
The seminar was sponsored by the Islamic Relief Agency (ISRA), in cooperation with the Reconstruction Bureau of Afghanistan (RAFA).
In his opening speech Prof. Rabbani said that there were three phases for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. In the first phase the refugees must be helped to go to their respective areas. They should be given enough food and other assistance to start working on their farms. This phase will require transition camps for the returning refugees.
In the second stage the priority
will be given to the repair of roads, ini-gation canals, bridges, houses and schools which were destroyed during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.
In the third phase attention will paid to overall economic and social development of the country.
He stressed the role of scholars and professionals in each phase of the reconstruction. He said that steps should be taken to contain the flow of experts abroad and to create conducive conditions for the return of those who live outside Afghanistan.
Prof. Rabbani said that before the return of the refugees, demining of routes, villages, farms and pastures should be carried out. This will prevent human losses among the returning refugees.
Mujahideen release two Soviet prisoners of war
Two Soviet prisoners of war were handed over to)their mothers by the Afghan Interim Government on November 27 in Peshawar.
The handover took place in a simple ceremony in which Sayed Ahmad Gailani, the Chief Justice of the AIG, the Soviet Ambassador to Pakistan, mothers of the prisoners and an official of the Pakistan foreign ministry had participated.
Sayed Ahmad Gailani read out a statement on behalf the AIG in which he termed the release of the Soviet soldiers as a humanitarian gesture to show the Mujahideen's good intentions. He said that the war was not over, and tens of thousands of Afghans were held in Kabul and in the Soviet Union.
Farooq Azam, the Education Minister of the Interim Government, told the mothers of the Soviet prisoners that Afghan mothers were also waiting for their sons who are held by the regime and the Soviet Union.
The Soviet Ambassador to Pakistan, Mr. Yakunin, thanked the AIG and said soon some Pakistani and Afghans prisoners will be released by the Kabul regime.
A committee has been set up in the Soviet Union to work for the release of prisoners of war. The Pakistan government helped facilitate the release of the two Soviet prisoners.
To cover the event a large number of Pakistani, Afghan and foreign jour-
nalists attended the ceremony.
This is not the first time the Mujahideen have showed their good intentions towards the Soviets. In the past, dozens of Soviet prisoners were handed over to the Red Cross, to be kept in Switzerland for a period of time and then allow them to choose between living in the West or returning home.
Other private organizations also took some prisoners to the west. Last spring Jami'at allowed two Soviet prisoners to choose between returning home and staying with the Mujahideen. They told ICRC officials that did not want to return.
All these gestures were never reciprocated by the Soviets and die Kabul regime.
December 9,1989 Qaus 18,1368
Max(C°) Min.
Kabul 7 rain 4mm		1
Salang rain 6mm, snow	4 26 cm	-6
Jabulseraj	9	4
Chekhcharan	3	-16
Shiberghan	20	4
Mazar	17	2
Kunduz	15	5
Farah	19	6
Zaranj	23	7
Jalalabad	27	8
Islam Qala	16	7
Please help us publish AFGHANews!
Dear reader,
We have been sending you AFGHANews free for some time. As you know, our resources are shrinking daily and we find we must ask you for help.
If you would like AFGHANews to be published and sent to you, please send your donations to the following account number
JEHAD
Account No. 735-37
Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala