AFGHANews Vol5, No 1 5, August 1, 1989, page©
Obituaries
Commander Islamuddin
Islamuddin was bom in an Uzbak family in Aaqpara village of Eshkamish 34 years ago.
His father, Wali Mohammad, liked for his son to study Islam. After primary education in the mosque school of his village, he went to Takharistan ma-drasa in Kunduz. After graduating from Takhristan he went to Kabul Arabic Darul-Ulum, a semi official religious school. Islamuddin became a student of the faculty of Islamic law (Sharayat) in Kabul University where he made personal contact with the core of the Islamic Movement among the professors and students.
During Daud's oppressive rule about 300 members of the Islamic Movement were jailed. Islamuddin served as a means of contact between the jail and the leadership of the Movement outside. His services in providing clothes, food and other needs of the prisoners were very valuable.
After graduating from the Faculty of Islamic Law, he was put into the military service. During his service in the army the communist took power. Most of those who were going to mosque to offer their regular prayers stopped to do so because of fear of the
Abdul Wadood son of Mullah Maqsood was bom in Pul-i-Qaf village of Talegan, the provincial capital of Takhar, in the spring of 1949. After completing primary school his father sent him to a Madrasa (religious school) to learn about Islam. After some time he was recruited, to the army.
When he returned, his falhnr had died. He had to shoulder the burden of supporting the family and he could not continue his studies. But he sent his youngerbrother, Abdul Mawjood to Takharistan Madrasa to learn about Islam. Abdul Mawjood was killed in fighting against the Soviet in 1986.
After the communist coup of 1978, he became active against the government. He and his cousin. Martyr Kishwari, worked hard to mobilize people against the communists. Due to shortages of arms and a limited number of Mujahideen Mullah worked secretly. His activities were discovered by the enemy and he was jailed. He was tortured by the communists to reveal the identity of his friends but he refused to do so. He was transferred to Kunduz
communists. But, Islamuddin was an exception. His courage did not permit him to hide his faith in God.
He came to Peshawar in 1978. In 1979 he accompanied the first group of Mujahideen to Badakhshan and later established his base in Sharshar of Eshkamish. He launched operations against the regime and Soviets in Kunduz, Khanabad and Nahrin in cooperation with the local Mujahideen.
His base was the host of the first meeting of the Supervisory Council.
He fought a difficult battle against the Soviets in 1983 when they attacked his base. Many of his men were killed. This increased his popularity among the local population.
His Mujahideen took part n different operations launched by the Supervisory Council of the North.
In 1987 he participated in the attack against Burka garrison which was captured by the Mujahideen
He was killed on June 10 by Hezb Islami and his body was dropped into the river to be recovered later. He was leading about 800 armed Mujahideen in Eshkamish district.
He has left behind a widow and two children.
Jail which was well protected.
Abdul Wadood was freed when the Mujahideen attacked the prison and released the prisoners in the fall of 1979.
During Mullah’s detention activities against the regime did not stop. His brother along with other Mujahideen at-
tacked regime supporters and captured their weapons. They killed several important communists in Taliqan. These actions were supported by the people because those communists were very oppressive in their dealings with ordinary people.
Mullah became an important Mujahideen figure in Talaqan and gathered a big force around himself.
Mullah had realized that individual actions were not enough to drive the Soviets out and establish a stable government When Commander Masood contacted him about formation of the Supervisory Council he accepted the idea and offered his resources for the reorganization of the Mujahideen.
He played a key role in capturing Ferkhar garrison in 1976 and Kalafgan in 1977 and the liberation of Talaqan in 1988.
He was leading more than 1500 Mujahideen in the center of Takhar province.
He was well-built person with a handsome face. He has left behind 12 children.
He was killed in the ambush set by Hezb Islami Mujahideen on July 9.
Mawlawl
Ezatullah
Mawlawi Ezatullah was bom in Seyab village of Bangi sub-district-Takhar province in 1934.
He started his childhood by going to Madrasa to learn about Islam. He studied Islamic subjects in different ma-drasas in Takhar. For further studies he came to Pakistan and studied in different madrasas in Peshawar and Charsada. He graduated from Haqqania madrasa in 1961
Turn to page (5 )
Commander Abdul Wadood