                      AFGHAN NEWS VOL. 11.     NO.&. 15/4/1986. P- 2.
                         PUPPET REGIME TRADE WITH W. GERMANY
   Recently the puppet regim's commerce minister announced that his government's trade
 with West Germany annually reaches more than 80 million Dollars.
   We are sure the government and the people of Germany know that Afghanistan is an occupied
 country and that the Kabul regime is a puppet brought to power by the foreing forces.
   Any type of deal with such a puppet regime which kills the people of Afghanistan, is an
              unfriendly act towards the people of Afghanistan. Germans are in a better position to understand
              the nature of the occupationist forces in Afghanistan and they see with their won eyes how
 the communist regimes are treating their people.
   We expect that the Germans (Government and people) should revise their commercial policy
              towards the puppet regime and stop all the previllages that the regime is enjoying in that
                                                                                          1
 country.                                                                        '
   Merchants who travel by the permission of the KGB and KHAD are a security risk for Germany too.
   It is in the best interest of freedom that the puppet regime should not benefit from any commercial deal even if it means a little sacrifice, in the part of German people. We do
                                      f                                                        *
 not know how the German government explains the contradiction which is witnessed between the verbal support of the freedom fighters and normal trade with a notorious puppet regime whose hands are red with blood from the people of Afghanistan ’
                                 BUILDING I IMAGE ON DIRTY WORK
   The notorious regime of Babrak has neither internal support nor international recognition. To build its image she tries to do criminal jobs to force the outside world to talk against it. By supporting hijackers, attacking civilian targets in Pakistan and indulging in drug trafficking she want to get publicity.
   When they       bomb a civilian target, the next  day the regim's diplomat is called to   the
 foriegn office, a letter of protest is delvered to him. This makes the regime happy and consider it an achievement.
   Recently the puppet regime invented another      way  that was to take some foriegners     at
 gun point to Afghanistan and keep them for several months. This way the name of the regime is in the papers.
   Dr. Robert     williamr on an Australian working  for UNHCR-World Bank projects in Pakistan
 was kidnapped      and tr<en to Afghanistan. After  several weeks, finally, he was released  on
              Dec. 27th on the arniversary of Soviet invasion of Afghanistan where his Pakistani driver
 is still in prison.
   Like any terrorist organization the puppet regime is building its image on dirty work and this is done according to plan drawn up by the Soviet invaders.
                                                     WAR MEWS
                                        ‘ PERWAN PROVINCE
 24 -'3/1986
    Mujahideen from J ami’at fslami attacked a puppets post in ’’Lower Dah Mullah" village oi Bagran district. 25 soldiers were captured along with 25 guns of different types.Mujahideen had no casualties. This area is close to Bagram Air Base, the largest in Afghanistan.