Vo! 4, No 9
May 1. 1988
                   Refugees’ big rally rejects Geneva deal
    THE AFGHAN Resistance rejected the Geneva accord by convening a meeting in which more than 40,000 people participated.
    The meeting which was held near Peshawar on April 16, was sponsored by the Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen, an umbrella organization composed of the seven Resistance parties.
    The meeting passed a resolution rejecting the Geneva accord on the following grounds:
    •    Afghan people were not represented In the talks
    •    The accord did not give the people of Afghanistan the right for self- determination.
    •    The Withdrawal of the Soviet troops is not immediate and unconditional.
    •    There is no guarantee against the re-intervent ion and interference by the Soviet Union.
    •    The accord is against the spirit and letter of the resolutions passed by the UN General Assembly.
    *lt imposes a puppet regime on the people of Afghanistan.
    AH the speakers in the meeting called the Geneva accord unjust and vowed to continue their armed struggle against the puppet regime.
    The Speakers predicted
that the Geneva accord would not bring peace and the return of refugees will not be possible in the face of the continuation ot the war.
   The Geneva accord which was signed on April 14 by Pakistan and the puppet regime and guaranteed by the two super powers allows the Soviets to give all sorts ol aid to the Najib government. The agreement forbids Pakistan from supporting the Resistance and considers it an interference in the affairs of Afghanistan.
   The Resistance leaders who spoke on the occasion believed that the people of Afghanistan would continue their armed struggle even ir they do not receive aid from outside. They foresaw the fall of the regime alter the Soviets have left.
Iraaiaas
oppose
Geneva
  IRAN has said that it will not recognize the Geneva accord which was signed between Pakistan and the Puppet regime in Kabul.
    Iran’s statement said that: ' The signing of an accord with a regime which is not supported by the Afghan people and which is backed by foreign forces, holds no value and is unlawful."
    The statement demands an end to all foreign interference and argues that any accord failing to meet the Afghans right lor self-determination will (alt short of solving the problems in that country.
    Iran is a neighboring country to Afghanistan and hosts more than two million Afghan refugees.
    Iran did not participate in the Geneva talks which were held under the UN auspices.
  Jamiat officer visits Oslo
   A CONFERENCE of all the local branches of the Norwegian committee for Afghanistan was held in Oslo to discuss ways of increasing humanitarian assistance to the needy Afghans after the Geneva accord has been signed.
   Massood Khalili. a Political Officer of Jami at, had been invited by the Committee to talk about the current situation of the war in the conference which was held on April 16,
   He met the Deputy Foreign Minister of Norway and briefed him about the situation in Afghanistan. Khalili also talked in a press conference.