---------------— AFGHANews Vol 6, No 2, January 15,1990, page ®
"I'm proud if Masood permits me to sit beside him and discuss ... Jehad." - Martyr Abdullah Ezam
The following interview with Abdullah Ezam was published in the Okm Daily in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, on the 26th of November, 1989.
Q. Negative propaganda is being said against Ahmad Shah Masood. They say he has formed a government inside a government and he works on behalf of France. Is this propaganda wrong or right?
A. It would be strange for me to judge about Ahmad Shah Masood. Who am I to dare to do so? I feel proud if he permits me to sit beside him and discuss with him issues concerning Jehad. How do you ask me to evaluate a person through whom Allah has caused the inridels to tremble and communism to be defeated? To me Masood is bigger than Napoleon because he has defeated those who had defeated Napoleon.
By God! Oh brother! This a bad way of criticizing Jehad and worse than that, to call a person like Masood to be an agent of France!! About forty days ago I visited Masood. He lived with ten of his followers in a mountain cave in an extremely cold climate. Such a living could not be tolerated except by a handful of people. What they eat is borrowed, their transportation costs are borrowed and they have borrowed their ammunition.
Masood complained in a polite manner that we might have thought that he was rich, because he was not extending his hand to ask for help. And he added, he owed 200 million Afghanis to the merchants because he had borrowed the money to feed his Mujahideen.
Yes, they live with confidence in God and continue to go to the chosen path of Jehad-the path of Muslims' dignity.
Q. No doubt Masood has been able to organize his guerilla units and has been the founder of what is called the "Islamic Guerilla School". But lately the rumors have spread that Masood has stopped righting against the Najib regime until judgement about the Faikhar incident is made.
A. It is true that the young faithful man Ahmad Shah Masood, is the founder of Islamic guerilla warfare. He has read most of the books written about guerilla warfare. He has studied about the Vietnam war, the Chinese experience, Castro and Che Guevara's
struggle and others, because learning about the experiences of others is knowledge and Almighty Allah has said:
Many were in the Way of Life That have passed away Before you: Travel throught The earth, and see what was The end of those Who rejected Truth.
(SJII. 137)
It means take lessons from other people's experiences.
He has made use of those parts which were applicable to the Afghan situation in a very orderly and calculated manner. I name some of those people who were illiterate, but because of their company with Masood and learning from him the Soviets gave them the title of General. Pana and Gada are two of these people. The Soviets called them General Pana and General Gada, because they were badly defeated by these illiterate but knowledgeable Mujahideen.
Abdullah Anas, a friend of Masood, once asked me if it was possible to help Pana by giving him one thousand Pakistani Rupees ($50) per month because he was poor. This is the life of General Pana one of the senior commanders of Masood.
About this rumor that Masood has stopped his military activities, I should ask you how and where he has done so? Last September, I saw the remains of more than 1000 tanks and military vehicles in Panjshir. All these were destroyed with steady fastness and courage of the Mujahideen. The Soviets had taken out twice the remains of their destroyed vehicles before they left Afghanistan.
Why such a question is being asked while Masood's forces have under their control a major part of the Salang highway. The Mujahideen live under the shower of thousands of bullets, mortar shells and explosive devises. This way the communist forces want to gain control of the highway.
For some time the Mujahideen belonging to Masood have closed the Salang highway by launching attacks against it. Where is the mass media to report these events honestly?
Q. The world media has made a big issue out of the Farkhar incident to defame Jehad, what is your opinion about it?
A. About the Farkhar incident. I'll report die story the way I have been informed. The story is like this:
A foolish man, called Sayed Mirza, whom I knew well, was a commander of Sayed Jamal who is the chief commander in that area (4 villages close to Farkhar Gorge). He is Sayed Jamal's brother and controlled four villages. He is famous for his bad manners and hot temper.
Ahmad Shah Masood had called a meeting of commanders from the four provinces of Badakhshan, Takhar, Kunduz and Baghlan to plan a major attack against the enemy after the Eidul-Azha. He set the date for the attack as the 30th of July and described to the commanders the new strategy and tactics of the war. He outlined the remaining enemy positions with the help of maps and information he had gathered about them.
After the meeting most of the commanders wanted to return to their areas with a few of their men . On their way they had to pass an area which was controlled by Sayed Mirza. He ordered the commanders and Mujahideen to go to a mosque. During the night all commanders were separated from the Mujahideen. Two days later about 100 local Ulama (Islamic scholars) went to Sayed Jamal and advised him not harm the captured commanders. Sayed Jamal promised not to harm them, but his brother went ahead and executed the five important commanders.
No wise man can do such a thing. Even a person who does not believe in God will not do such a thing. Sayed Mirza who was a recognized professional criminal was a stupid person because the area he controlled was encircled by territory controlled by Masood.
When the Ulamas heard about the killing of the commanders, they gave the verdict that he is a killer and a highway robber and the Mujahideen should right against him.
Masood told the Ulamas that his Mujahideen will surround Sayed Mirza's area because if they battled, more people would be killed. Masood announced that the aim of his siege was the apprehension of Sayed Jamal and his brother. Sayed Jamal's men were surrounded and each day the circle was tightening around them.
People abandoned Jamal and his brother and they with one other person took refuge in Taloqan. They refused to
Turn to page (4)