AFGHANews Vol7, No 13, July 1,1991, page ©
negotiators
Recent increased diplomatic efforts to bring about a consensus among the Afghan resistance on a peace formula and the creation of a broad-based representative body have made little progress so far.
The recent diplomatic efforts followed the announcement of the UN five-point plan to seek a peaceful solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
These efforts enjoy the encouragement and backing of the Pakistan government, which has supported the UN plan.
The Afghan resistance feels all the resistance groups should agree on a common answer to the UN proposals.
A 28-member common council representing all resistance groups has been formed to bring such an understanding. So far, the council has met twice, but some groups have not participated in its meetings for one reason or another.
Peshawar-based parties each have three representatives on the council. Independent factions such as those of Qazi Amin, Jamil ur-Rahman and Mawlawi Moazzin each have one representative.
Two Peshawar-based Shia parties, Harakat (Mohsini) and Shoora Ittifaq, have sent one representative each, and two seats are reserved for Hezb Wahdat, a Shia party based in Tehran.
Hezb Islami (Khalis) and Jamil ur-Rahman's representatives have not participated in the council's meeting, apparently in opposition to die participation of Shia parties and of Hizb Islami (Hekmatyar) respectively.
Hezb Wahdat is not satisfied with two seats, and has demanded at least five. This issue has always prevented Iran-based Shia parties from cooperating with the Peshawar-based parties.
A delegation of Hezb Wahdat is currently visiting Pakistan at the invitation of the government of Pakistan. The delegation, headed by Rahmtullah Mortazawi, has met the president, prime minister and officials of the Pakistan foreign ministry. They also held talks with some Mujahideen leaders, including Prof.Rabbani.
Mortazawi told reporters in Islamabad that his party rejects any deal with the Kabul regime. He said that the part of the UN plan which envisages a cease-fire and talks with the Kabul regime is unacceptable to Hezb Wahdat. He said also that former monarch Zaher Shah can play a role in the
process only as an individual Afghan.
A two-member delegation representing the former king has arrived in Islamabad at the invitation of the foreign ministry to discuss ways of bringing peace to Afghanistan. The members of die delegation are one of Zaher's cousins, Sultan Mahmood Ghazi, now living as a refugee in the United States, and Abdul Satar Seerat, a former Afghan justice minister who lives as a refugee in Saudi Arabia.
They also met the president, prime minister and high foreign ministry officials to discuss the role of the ex-king in a peace formula.
They also met with five leaders of the Peshawar-based Mujahideen parties and with the leaders of Shia parties. They visited Peshawar and Quetta and talked to some commanders and refugees. For them, it was an assessment mission to determine their future course of action.
They ruled out the possibility of any sort of deal with the Kabul regime. They tried to persuade die Mujahideen that the ex-monarch wants to play a temporary role in bringing peace, and was seeking no permanent role for himself and his family.
Zahir Shah had earlier proposed the formation of a Loya Jirga (a grand national assembly) in a neutral country to choose a head of state, adopt a constitution and appoint a transition administration to replace the Kabul regime.
Pakistan, in a policy change, appears to have lent some weight to these efforts by contacting former king in Rome and inviting his representatives to Pakistan.
This invitation and the support expressed by some Mujahideen parties and tribal circles must have encouraged him to take a more active role in the future.
Prof. Rabbani received the Zahir Shah delegation and listened to then-views. Jami'at has always opposed a leading role by the former king but has avoided harsh propaganda against him in the larger interests of the Jehad. Jami'at's position remains unchanged.
Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Prof. Sayyaf refused to talk with representatives of the former king. Several hundred students affiliated with Hezb Islami staged a demonstration outside the Holiday Inn in Islamabad where the king's envoys .were staying. They shouted slogans against die king and the United States.
Diary of Jehad
From page (7)
Bashir did not evacuate the' areas he had seized. Finally he was pushed out by force after rejecting the repeated appeal by the local Ulama and a delegation of commanders from other Mujahideen parties.
These events postponed the sixth meeting of Supervisory Council and delayed the military operation against die regime in Khwaja Ghar. But I am sure the Mujahideen will launch their attacks soon because they woe preparing for it (This interview was made before the fall of Khwaja Ghar).
I found Masood an impressive person. I watched him closely during my stay in Takhar and found him a committed Muslim. He is a good military leader and a kind friend.
On the way back to Pakistan, I passed through Panjshir. I found it the most devastated place in Afghanistan. I saw a large number of destroyed planes, tanks and trucks in Panjshir. Most of the villages were ruined.
Back in Pakistan, I heard that my family had become refugee in Turkey along with millions other Kurds. There are many similarities between us and Afghans. There are also similarities between the Saddam and Najib.
EC backs UN plan
The European Community has announced its support for the UN plan to seek a political solution to the Afghan problem. It asks the world to stop sending aims to both sides in the conflict: It also suggests formation of a transitional setup in Afghanistan to bring peace in that, country.
!Hdp us publish fPFQMTUHzws!
Tteast send your donations to die fodowiny account numBer:
7E2&VD Account	73$-37
9(a6i6 ‘Banf^Ltd. ‘Tefftcd BaCa, Tesdamtr Takjstan