AFGHAN NEWS VOL,111, NO, 15&16,    15/8/87 PAGE 9
11-  It. was dcided to establish some strong bases in important strategic parts of Afghanistan jointly operated by various Mujahideen organizations. They will serve as strongholds for anti-Russian operations and as training centres,
12-  Joint courts (by all Mujahideen organiztions) should be established at provincial and district levels in order to facilitate the solution of people's legal problems.
13- Authoritative legal teams should be appointed in defferent regions to quickly settle people’s disputes.
14- The Conference discussed medical problems of the people and the wounded Mujahideen and made appropriate decisions.
All the Afghan doctors who live as refugees outside the country are requested to cooperate.
15-  It was decided to hold a second Conference within six months in order to form the Superrae Revolutionary Council
of Jehad, to determine the future of the oppressed Afghanistan people, and to decide on the operation and coordination of military activities in Afghanistan.                       V
16-  In the next Conference, the provincial Amirs of all the Mujahideen organizations or their authoritative representatives wilt take part.
17-  All the commanders of all the Mujahideen organizations are invited to extend their cooperation by presenting proposals, views and initiatives.
18-  in all the provinces and districts, councils and conferences should be held in order to decide about sending authoritative representatives to the second Conference.
19 - The supreme Councel of Jehad will put pressure on the Mujahideen organizations to bring about genuine unity among themselves aoutside Afghanistan so that decisive military decisions inside and political activities- autside the country lead to complete withdrawal of the Russian troops.
20-,Publication of this resolution is permissible. It will be published in all Miijahideen periodicals.
PROF. RABBAN1S *S TRIP TO WEST GERMANY
On July 20, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani. the leader of Jamiat Islami Afghanistan, went to west Germany to participate in a Conference organized by the Muslims living there.
He remained in Germany after the conference for medical
check-up.