AFGHANews Vol7, No 21, November 1,1991, page 0
y \ ^ Ik-'!
4 *$;t v^ui^ir/V<
Editorial
The visit to Moscow
The visit to Moscow by a Mujahideen delegation, headed by Prof. Rabbani, to discuss Afghan issue with the Soviet leaders is an important step in direction of finding a political settlement to the 13-year old conflict.
The Mujahideen have had three formal meetings with the Soviet officials in the past- once in Taif, Saudi Arabian, and twice in Islamabad. These talks produced no positive results because the Soviets insisted on the participation of the Kabul regime in the peace process, something that the Mujahideen did not accept What makes the visit to Moscow different from the past meetings is the changes that have taken place in the Soviet Union. There are signs that Soviet Afghan policy might undergo a change. The Soviet Foreign Minister indicated in his meeting with the Mujahideen in New York that Moscow did not insist on participation of Najib in the transitional period. The UN Secretary General in his annual report on Afghanistan has said that controversial people (an indirect reference to Najib) will not insist on their participation in the intra-Afghan dialogue or in transitional administration. The Soviet Union has also agreed to end supply of arms to Kabul from January 1,1992.
The Mujahideen delegation will have an opportunity to listen to the views of the Soviet leaders on the subject and will judge if their current stand is different rom their old position. They can inform die Soviet leaders about their own views regarding the Kabul regime, future form of government and Afghans relationship with their neighbors.
If the Soviet leaders agree to terminate their political, military and economic aid to the Kabul regime, the peace process will enter a new phase. Such a move will make the Mujahideen optimistic about a political solution of the problem. So far, most of the Mujahideen believe thht the current political efforts are attempts to arrange a power-sharing deal between the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime.
The Mujahideen delegation can also discuss the fate of prisoners rtf war of the two sides, evacuation of Soviet advisors from Afghanistan, withdrawal of the weapons of mass-destruction given to the regime by Moscow and future form of relations between the two countries.
There are a lot of doubts in the mind of Afghans at the moment about the intentions of the Soviets leaders. Soviet should take practical steps to build confidence with Afghans. They have a special responsibility in restwing peace in Afghanistan because their covert and overt actions have pushed a peaceful country into the present dangerous crisis.	x
Gorbachev did nothing to correct the past mistakes of the Soviet leaders except to withdraw the Soviet troops to stop them from being killed. He did everything else tokeepNajib in power. He gave Najib SCUD missiles and other weapons of mass-destruction. He helped him politically and economically to the extent that the world was surprised by the abundance of Soviet food in Kabul while Soviets woe facing acute food shortage at home. Gorbachev was fbfiowing the oM Soviet Afghan policy to prop up a regime which was brought to power by the Red Army.
Let us hope that the Soviet leaders have changed their Afghan policy after the recent developments in Moscow. The visit will show whither the notions of a change is genuine or just a ploy to buy time for Najib.
Soviets might be concerned about the attitude of the future Afghan government towards Moscow. If they read the history of the relations between the two countries, they will find that the problems has always come from their side. Afghans had done nothing hostile to the Soviet Union and has no intentioh erf adopting such an attitude in the future. The relations of the future governments in Afghanistan with their neighbors, including the Soviet Union, will be based on equality and mutual respect.
POWs deal not honored
The Mujahideen of Jami’at who released a Soviet soldier say that the Kabul regime has not released the remaining five prisoners listed by the Mujahideen. Soviets had promised to secure the release of 25 Mujahideen prisoners held by the Kabul regime. The Mujahideen have informed Dr. Ermacora, the UN reporter on human rights in Afghanistan, about the matter and have sought his help to solve this problem.
US doctor is released
A US veterinarian, freed by Afghan kidnappers after more than three months of captivity in Afghanistan, has left for home, a US
Doctor William Lewis, 60, was one of the two US nationals abducted by a small Shia Mujahideen group on July 7 in southeast Ghazni province. His freedom was obtained through prolonged negotiations involving tribal elders and some Afghan Mujahideen groups.
Asource in the US Agency for International	Development
(USAID) in Peshawar said that 'no money was involved" in the release. Dr. Lewis was reportedly working with a British organiztion Global Partnership, involved chiefly in development and environmental projects.
Jami'at leader visits Tehran
Jami'at leader Prof. Rabbani attended a conference pn Palestine held in Tehran from October 19 to 22.
The conference was sponsored by the speaker of the Iranian Majlis fPariiament) to express solidarity with struggle of Palestinians.
About 250 delegates from 75 countries attended the conference which was held under the title of "the Muslim World and Intifada".
Afghan Mujahideen support the struggle rtf Palestinian people for freedom of their homeland. To the Mujahideen liberation of Al-Quds, the third holiest shrines of Muslims, from the occupation of Israel is a key to any settlement .