RFOHRH HEUS VIOL,III, HO. 19, 1/10/ 1967 PR6E6
succeed in spite of all the material and spiritual capabilities he possessed. By forming a new organization.ProfSayyaf not only failed to do anything positive for Jehad, but he further divided the Mujahideen and probably damaged his own prestige as veil.
In short, in my mind anyone vho wants to create a new division within Jamist, whatever his reasons or excuses may be, he is committing a treason to Afghanistan's Jehad, I have never had such thoughts, neither will I allow anyone else to create such a situation within Jamiat.
                               AFGHANS DEMONSTRATED IN NEW YORE
 Hundreds of Afghans demonstrated in front of the UN building on 23 September to protest against the Soviet occupation of their country. Their demonstration coincided* with the Soviet minister's speech in the General Assembly. Demonstrators demanded the end of the genocide of Afghan people carried out by the Soviets and the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Islamic and non-aligned Afghanistan.
                                 NAJIB'S EFFORTS DOOMED TO FAILURE
 The Puppets boast about their achievements in military and political fields but in reality they are weaker in both fields than ever.
 Vhen the Soviets dictated the National Reconciliation to the puppets in January 1987 the first requirement for any possible success was the formation of a united front composed of all Communist factions who were collaborating with the Soviets.
 Najib changed his tone and tried to convince his rival comradeslle told them it was for the benefit of all of them if they were united. At first, the Khalq faction came close to him but within a few weeks Khaiqis asked too much from Najib so their Honey-moon ended. Najib also worked among other factions like Shola, Setam MiliXhaiq Ear gar etc. but was only able to buy off one cr two of their leaders. The result was disastrous both for the regime and for the Soviets. Now each of the previous faction are divided into two (including Ffrcham Najib's ern faction). On top of all this Soviets have created a new faction which works for thea directly.
 Factional rivalries have caused many headaches for the Spviets. Night letters are being spread by each faction against the others. The interesting point of all this is the way the Soviets deal with all the factions. The night-letters of different factions are printed in government-controlled printing house with the help of Soviet advisors.
 The Soviets are disappointed about the performance of Najib and the ever-increasing factional dispute enong Communists.
 A good evidence of lack of confidence among the puppet is the late appointment of Najib as the head of Revolutionary Council, Najib who was offering governmental posts for his opponents finally occupied the ceremonial post of presidency.
 Some consider this as a sign of strengthening his position but factional rivalries and lack of confidence in his friends has forced him to take such a step. Najib's military and Political efforts have failed and this has pushed him closer to the end of his political
 life.
                         THE STORY OF A 12 YEAR OLD KHAD AGENT
                                  (Reporter: Abdul Hafiz Mansur)
A 12 year old KHAD member lives with Mujahideen in Panjshir. He says he studied about spying for four months in "Poineers' Palace" in Tashkand,