AFGHANews Vol 8, No 14, July 15,1992, page ©
President Rabbani outlines program of Islamic State
Prof. Rabbani, the president of the Islamic Slate of Afghanistan, has said that providing security-and maintaining of law and order are the main points of his agenda.
Speaking on TV and radio after the transfer of power, he said forming a unified army from the ranks of Mujahideen and professional officers was a key to achieving stability. He also announced the dissolution of all paramilitary forces formed by the previous regime.
The Islamic government, he stated, would observe the rights of all Afghan nationalities,, particularly with regard to the army's ranks and within other state organs.
The Islamic State, continued the president, would take necessary steps to make sure that the people - and especially Kabul residents — are safe from insecurity and anarchy; and that every individual's life, properly, honor and dignity are safeguarded. He added that the plan for providing security in Kabul has been prepared and will be announced soon.
Although the general amnesty remains in force, said the president, adventurists who continue to commit sabotage and create disorder must be punished.
He said that protecting the gains of Jehad, propagating the message of Islam, implementing Islam in all dimensions of the society's life, consolidating the Islamic State and the preservation of national unity were his government’s primary responsibilities.
Respect for human dignity and the people's natural rights were among the pillars of his domestic policy, he continued, and added that the people’s participation in electing the national leadership was the most basic element of the Islamic political system.
He said the Islamic State would try earnestly to increase the supply of basic commodities in the market, prevent hoarding, and control prices of goods.
Stressing the need for reconstruction, Prof. Rabbani asked the people to take keen interest in rebuilding Afghanistan, and called on friendly countries to give all possible support towards achieving this.
There is, he added, a need to rebuild our towns and villages on modem lines, taking into account the commercial, eductional, health and recreational needs of the population
Prof. Rabbani committed the Islamic State to paying special attention to reviving and developing agriculture during reconstruction, so that the country would become self-sufficient in food production in the near future.
The Islamic government would promote and guarantee domestic and foreign investment, said Prof. Rabbani, who called such investment a significant step towards industrial development.
The president asked all Afghan scholars, scientists, engineers, physicians, and experts who live abroad to respond to the needs of their Islamic homeland and fulfill their religious duty by participating in Afghanistan's reconstruction.
Prof. Rabbani announced that the Islamic Slate would launch a comprehensive campaign against (he cultivation, production; trafficking and use of narcotics and other intoxicants. The government would also take measures for the treatment of drug addicts, he said.
He hoped that the United .Nations and friendly countries would help Afghans to fulfill this humane goal by providing financial and technical asssis-tance for implementation of the program.
Prof. Rabbani stressed the need for Islamization of the educational system and said that Islamic subjects will be treated as the essential element of school curricula. The Islamic State will abolish from school books those materials found to be against Islamic principles.
He said the Islamic State intended to reform the women's educational system, in order to acquaint women with the essentials of knowledge and culuire in accordance with the needs of Afghanistan's Islamic society. Women will enjoy all the rights and privileges endowed them under the teachings of Islam, he added.
Prof. Rabbani said he respected freedom of expression, within the framework of the Islamic Sharia, and considered it necessary for society's intellectual growth.
Prof. Rabbani stated that Afghanistan’s foreign policy would be based on protecting and promoting national interests, consolidating independence and national sovereignty, defense of territorial integrity, preservation of
world peace and security, elevating Afghanistan's prestige within the international community, and ensuring the welfare and tranquility the society of mankind.
The Islamic Slate, he continued, respected the United Nations charter, the International Declaration of Human Rights and all other established principles and norms of international law which are consistent with Islamic principles.
He said Afghanistan would play an active role in the non-aligned movement and in the Organization of the Islamic Conference.
Prof. Rabbani said the Islamic State would support .the rights of Palestinians and added ihat it supports the solution of the Kashmir problem on the basis of UN resolutions. Afghanistan would support the struggles of the Muslims of Burma, the Philippines and Bosnia-Hercegovina.
He thanked Afghanistan's two Islamic neighbors, Pakistan and Iran, for the help they had rendered to Afghanistan's Muslims during the past 14 years. He also expressed his gratitude to all other Muslim countries — particularly Saudi Arabia -- who strongly supported the Jehad.
The president also thanked the US, China, Japan and western European countries for supporting the Afghan struggle.	•
Prof. Rabbani rebuked the government of India for not support the just cause of Afghans during Soviet occupation of their country. But he added that Afghanistan stood ready nevertheless to establish good relations with India, which is a a member of the non-aligned movement and has a large Muslim population.
He said Afghanistan was keen to establish friendly relations with the newly independent Central Asian Muslim republics, and expressed confidence that friendship between the Islamic State of Afghanistan and neighboring Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, and Turkmenistan would result in the growth of commercial, economic and cultural ties.
Prof. Rabbani said Afghanistan was ready to normalize its relations with Russia, but added that Moscow, as the legal heir of the former Soviet Union, should help rebuild Afghanistan as well as paying war reparations.