AFGHAN NEWS                No. 1           1-2-1985         P-5
   ' A Jamiat representative in Mashhad telephoned the following message to ua in Peshawar?                                         / - * -
     While Shiragha, with a Russian advisor was visiting some of his wounded militia groups in the hospital in Herat city, he was assassinated by a Mujahid named/ Abdullah oTC'dlaii!±aiL»it.
     The. assassination was planned so efficiently that both Shiragha and his Russian advisor were shot dead in a surprise attack, Abdulah escaped unharmed.
     According to a report telephoned from Tehran soon after Shiragha Chungur1s death On 2nd Jan, 75 villages previously controlled by him were liberated by Mujahideen of Herat. It is reliably reported that Mujahideen entered the villages and were warmly received by the civilians .
     The report says that Mujahideen captured about 550 different kinds of weapons and much ammunition from these villages.
     It is said that 300 armed militias joined Mujahideen and 50 others were captured alive.
     A report from Mashhad says that immediately after Shiragha1s death thd Russians deserted many of the outposts in fear of being disarmed or captured by Mujahideen.
     According to the same reports 2b MIGs, along with four helicopters air raided the villages of the western part of the city of Herat such as Housi-Karbas, Brarnan, Shalbafan,Paymunar, Babajy, Hawada, Abdul Walid and Diwandcha. ITo casualties have been reported.
     The above mentioned villages are mostly the bases and hideouts of Mujahideen of Herat. However, they are often bombarded by the enemy but still the majority civilians have not been evacuated .
                          MASSACRE IN CHARDARA
     In» retaliation to the death‘of a Russian officer killed by a mine planted in his way by Mujahideen , the Russians attacked Chardara District of. Kunduz province. According to a report on 23 Dec. 84, at 2 p.m the Russians captured the villages of Giraw Qushlaq, Wardak and Khogi-ani to search for Mujahideen.
     As they were not- able to find any the Russian started killing defenceless civilians including the children ,old men and women of these villages. The report says that more than 400 people were killed and many others wounded. According to an eyewitness., most of. the houses of Chardara District were destroyed and the property of the people was either burnti or looted. At present no one lives in the area because of this barbaric and inhuman behaviour of the Russians has forced them to leave their villages for the neighbouring areas.