AFGHANews Vol 6, No 8, April 15,1990, page ©
Herat Province
Jami'at Mujahideen killed a great many enemy soldiers and officers, including two regime generals, and wounded the governor of Herat on April 6 in Pustoon Zarghoon District The two generals were Jalal Razminda, the deputy minister of WAD (the Ministry of State Security), and Sarab Mandozai, the Herat provincial police commander. Fazulhaq Khaliqyar, the governor of Herat ,was seriously injured.
According to Radio Kabul, three of the four militia commanders who were supposed to defect to the regime woe also killed.
The incident took place at a gathering in which some mujahideen groups were supposed to lay down arms in front of foreign journalists and diplomats.
When Fazlulhaq Khaliqyar embraced the first militia commander he was shot In IS minutes of gunfire, 80 people were killed or wounded.
Having learned of the planned defection, a group of Mujahideen infiltrated the gathering under the pretxt of joining the defectors. When the ceremony began they attacked the communists and their militia friends.
The Kabul regime wanted to make a media event out the ceremony held in Pushtbon Zarghoon. Foreign journalists and diplomats from communist countries were flown to Herat from Kabul to watch the ceremony.
Mujahideen sources say that four of the attackers were also martyred in the fighting.
According to the Mujahideen reports, regime forces have started firing rockets indiscriminately into Mujahideen-controUed areas of Herat
The news of the Herat attack was received with pleasure by Afghan refugees in Pakistan.
The loss of so many high ranking officers is a serious setback for the re-
gime and a great failure for its national reconciliation program.
The incident in Herat happened one month after the Tanai coup attempt, in which a large number of regime officers were also killed.
Badakhshan Province
Jami'at Mujahideen captured an enemy security post in Faizabad on March 23.
Thirty soldiers were captured and the following weapons were seized from the post:
20 Kalashnikov rifles
3 PK machine-guns
2RPG-7 rocket launchers
1R-107 radio set
40 boxes of ammunition
The area around Faizabad, the provincial capital, is controlled by Abdul Basir Khalid, a well-known Jami'at commander.
Samangan Province
One hundred armed militiamen in Dehfil village of Khulm district surrendered to Jami'at Mujahideen chi April 2, Hundu Kush News Agency reported.
Paktia Province
The Mujahideen are preventing enemy transport planes from landing in Khost airport, forcing the regime to parachute supplies to its besieged garrison.
The Mujahideen control Tora Ghara ridge, about 9 kilometers from the air field, from which they fire mortars and rockets at landing aircraft. The wreckage of at least five enemy transport planes can be seen near the airport
Khost, a town about 30 kilometers from the Pakistan border, has been besieged by the Mujahideen fra1 two years.
Logar Province
Regime warplanes heavily bombed Kunjak and Niazy villages in Logar, destroying 100 houses, on April 1. The residence of die mention villages have been displaced to odier areas in the province.
The next day, six heavy rockets ( possibly Scud missiles) woe fired by die enemy into die same villages, destroying cnie restaurant and 11 trucks.
Soviet IL-76 plane crashes in Kabul
A Soviet transport plane bringing supplies to the Kabul regime crashed near Kabul airport on March 27.
Confirming the crash, Soviet sources claimed'that the Ilyushin-76 Aeroflot aircraft was carrying non-military supplies.The, Soviet Union sends both military and non-military supplies by air to Kabul. Ilyushin-76 planes can carry up to 40 tons of goods.
It is thought that the Mujahideen shot down the plane. The nine crewmen of the plane woe all reported dead. Meanwhile, the Kabul regime has said that it has started a security campaign south of Kabul. The fighting started few days after the Soviet transport plane's crash south of the airport
The Soviet ambassador to Kabul had earlier warned the Mujahideen against any attempt to shoot down Soviet transport planes bringing supplies to Kabul.
USSR sends regime more SCUD missiles
The Soviet Union has sent more SCUD missiles to Kabul recently to help government troops resist Mujahideen attacks in at least three eastern frontier provinces, military sources said in Kabul.
A regime spokesman said that "if Mujahideen guerillas attack civilian targets, we will fire SCUDs and other heavy rockets."
SCUDs woe first deployed in Afghanistan in October 1988, before the Soviet army withdrew from the country , and have been used in the east and south.
At least eight of the giant missiles, carrying warheads weighing up to one ton, were brought to the Afghan capital in large convoys escorted by tanks, and will be prepared for launching.