Gulbuddin attacks Kabul
Hezb Islami 's attack on Kabul, which began on August 10, killed and wounded more than 1,000 people and destroyed hundreds of public buildings, private houses and other property. Thousands of residents of Kabul took refuge in safe areas of Kabul or migrated to the provinces.
The attack was launched at 5:00 am on Monday from three directions in south and southeast. The ground offensive was accompanied with extensive rocket attacks on Kabul airport and the city. More than 000 rocket fell In Kabul In less than 90 minutes.
The attack was aimed at removal of the Islamic government by force and establishment of Hezb'i rule.
The animosity of Hikmatyar began with the formation of the interim Islamic government at the end of April. Instead of talking to other Mujahideen leaders about the formation of a Mujahideen government, Gulbuddin wanted to establish hts rule through military force.
On April 26, he launched an attack on Kabul with the help of Khalq faction of the communist regime but was defeated ,by the forces loyal to the Islamic government. After this historical defeat, he maintained pressure on Kabul by launching indiscriminate rocket attacks killing and wounding hundreds of its residence.
A number of well-wishers of Jehad, both Afghans and foreigners, tried to mediate a settlement between Gulbuddin and the government Prof. Rabbani and Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood met with Hikmatyar. A permanent ceasefire was announced and way for participation of Hezb in the government was paved.
Gulbuddin has been demanding withdrawal of Division 53 of General Dostum. The defense ministry has been saying that the withdrawal of these traces depended on improvement of security situation in Kabul and removal
of the threat of attack from south by Hikmatyar. .
After two months from the formation. of the interim government, Gulbuddin agreed to the participation of Abdus Saboor Farid in the government. But, one day before Farid's entry into Kabul, rocket attack by Hezb killed 100 civilians and wounded 300 more.
It was hoped that after assumption of prime minister post by Farid the situation would improve. But, Hezb continued his hostile policy towards the government by creating problems for supply convoys along the highways and launching rocket attacks on the capital
Hikmatyar also intensified his subversive activities against the government in Kabul and tried to exploit the differences between Ittihad Islami of Prof. Sayyaf and Hezb Wahdat. By entry of Farid into Kabul Hezb’s subversive .elements gained more freedom and the prime minister's house was turned into an intelligence gathering center and outpost for guiding artillery and rocket fire.
The new phase of Gulbuddin's confrontation with the government began about one months ago when he claimed that more than 7,000 fresh troops from division 53 had reached , Kabul. Meanwhile, he Intensified propaganda war against president Rabbani and Defense Minister Masood and escalated the tension by military provocations.
After some skirmishes south of Kabul, Hezb chose the Kabul airport as the main target of his attacks claiming that the airport was being used for military purposes.
These attacks succeeded in cancelling the planned visit of Mohammad Nawaz Sharif, the Prime Minister of Pakistan, to Kabul and the visit of President Rabbani to Teheran and Islamabad.
Another target of Gulbuddin’s attack was the transmitter of TV located on a hill in the middle of the city. He succeeded in silencing the TV after days of rocket, and artillery attacks which' killed ^uid wounded scores of
people in a poor area of Kabul.
The defense ministry’s reaction to Hezb’s attack were restricted. The restrained reaction was aimed to avoid escalation of war. The government wanted to tell to the ordinary people, the main victims of Gulbuddin’s attacks, that it was not responsible for the start of the war and prevent misunderstanding between different Mujahideen groups.
A cluster rocket attack on the center of the city on the fourth day of war killed 100 ordinary people and wounded 200.
Until August 15, the government reaction to Hezb's attacks was of a defensive nature. But there were signs that government troops were preparing for an offensive attack to dislodge the invaders from their positions around the city.
According to some diplomatic sources a convoy of arms and ammunition crossed the border into Afghanistan , from Pakistan for Hikmatyar. The report, was denied by the official spokesman of Pakistan. Nawaz Sharif has said that his government would not allow Pakistan's territory to be used by elements who step on moral values. It was a clear reference to Hezb which attacked civilian targets inside the city. Hezb still has offices in Pakistan which carry out propaganda war against the Islamic government in Kabul. Hezb receives financial support from its supperters in Middle East through Pakistani banks.
Although Nawaz Shari fs intentions to end support for Gulbuddin cannot be disputed, there are elements within the army establishment in Pakistan who have close ties with Hikmatyar and do not hesitate to support their strategic friend. There are reports that some Arab and Pakistani volunteers .are fighting along the forces of Gulbuddin against the government in Kabul. President Rabbani in his speech on radio called on all friendly countries, especially neighboring and Islamic countries, to end supporting the
B33 To page (7)