
h
AFGHAN 8 vs Veil No IS, Ssptsmbw* 15,1988, Pegs?7
Fr&m	the Diary	Jehad
Part-2
Mixed feelings of sorrow and joy prevailed devastated valley
By Mohammad Es'haq
I entered P&njshir after crossing Aajuman Pass on July 15*
The first attractive sign was the presence of some camels and flocks of sheep belonging to some Kochis (nomads). These people used to come to Panjshir before the war. During the past ten years few of them could make their yearly journey there due to security problems along the way and danger of aerial bombard meat The Kochis have been supportive to the Jehad and some of them earned great respect from the Mujahideen and civilian population for their services to internal refugees during the war.
Flower
It is a long walking distance from the pass to the first village in Peryan but the scenery was very beautiful. The valley was green and a beautiful river was flowing in the middle of it. Wild flowers of all colors made the valley more attractive.
In a shop in the village of Chemar 1 wanted to buy barley for my horse and a few meters of rope. The old shopkeeper had the barley and the rope but he had I neither scale nor yard stick. It took some minutes before we could borrow a scale and yard stick from another shop to weigh the barley and measure the rope. The old man like other people in the area was a new-comer to the business.
The war situation and the presence of a large number of passers-by had provided an opportunity for him to earn money.
Prices here were much lower than Anjuman. The reason for lew prices was the opening of the road in the valley which had decreased transportation costs and eliminated several middleman in the business.
Paryaa housing styles are changing. People are building new houses with straight walls, targe windows, toilets and bathrooms. This has became possible due to the improvement in the economic life of the people during ten years of the war.
Peryan
Peryan being far away from the main Soviet bases in the valley and having no road useable by vehicles was never occupied. It has been bombed but not heavily.
The other reason for better economic conditions In this pan of the valley is a booming business of lapis lazuli and other essential goods.
Transportation of goods and people is a good source of income to the local people.
The land in Peryan was cultivated but due to traditional ways of farming, and lack of fertilizer, improved seed and agrochemicals, farm yields are very low.
School A good sign was the introduction of vegetables in the area by displaced families from lower parts of the valley. There was a primary school and a religious Madrassarin Kewjaa village of Peryan. It was good to see that children were going to school in the morning and returning at
noon,
Dashti Riwat is connected j to Peryan through a narrow valley in in which the main Panjshir river flows. The Mujahideen have decided to extend the road from Dasht Riwat to Peryan. The construction of this 20 kilometer long section is about to be completed.
The ten years of war has taught the people of the valley the importance of road transportation. Now that the Soviets have left the valley and the puppet forces do not have the strength to attack by land the people feel safe enough to extend the road net work.
They used very primitive equipment to build the road. This makes it a slow and tedious job. A bulldozer or tractor with blade attached could work more than one hundred men. Rock-blasting equipments make the job much easier,
£h©acii
Dasht! Riwat is the first major town In the upper part of the Panjshir valley, It was half-inhibited at the time I visited the area, A few shops had opened. Trucks were bringing goods to the town.
The booming shopping center in the upper part of the valley is Khench Bazar, Here you can buy almost anything available in the Kabul markets .
As the truck by which we were travelling moved further down the valley scale of destruction increased. We passed through Pushghcor which was liberated one year ago. The Communist positions were (Turn page to ft)