                                                        5
                                   LI2-I2.„5J2I_II§l-.Yi$Z2y§„5§§JS1_I§
       ■ Ja.nlat Is 1 ami of Afghanistan condemns Zionist violation of the sanctity of the Holy Mosque of Al-Aqsa.
       The people of Afghanistan who are dedicated muslins are deeply hurt by Zionist acts which degrade the third holiest mosque of Islam. The muslin world should v/ake up a.nd defend itself against all foriegn designs against itself. Lip service to Palestine, could not help thef nation and could not free the holy land from Zionist occupation. Divisions among members of the muslin wotId is one of the reason for our failure. Tut more destructive is lack of faith for the cause of Islam. Officially muslin countries support Palestine and the liberation ¥ AL-Aqsa Mosque but people are not ready to make any sacrifices for it. This naive approach has encouraged invaders and aggressors to continue their occupation of Palestine and Afghanistan and create the tragic
       events of South Yemen. The solution to all these problems.is honest
                                              »
       adherence to Islam and readiness to take the necessary Sacrifices.
                      lSSSmjGERuOF_DEATH_/UjTD__DESTRUCTION
       Communism is the messenger of death and destruction. This is true about Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Angola, Cambodia and South Yemen.
       Cnee more Communism showed its ugly face in the events of South Yemen.
                                                           *r-.
       More than ten thousand people were killed in fighting between the communist factions. South Yemen being the only Communist state in the Arab
       world is a close' ally of the Soviet Union.
       The Soviets have strategic interests in South Yemen. They had a large number of military advisors in the country. The situation in South Yemen is siMliar to the 1979 Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The future lea-der appointed in Moscow condemns the previous leader as a Pacist element He pledges to fee a faithful follower of Moscow policies. The Soviets installed another Tabrak F.armal in Couth Yemen while deceiving the world by evacuating their civilian citizens. All this happened when the Arab world was kept busy by the so-called American invasion of L;ibya.
       The Soviets are becoming sophisticated in their policies while the rest of the world consoles themselves with hollow promises of Soviet leadership for peace.