-	AFGHANews Voi 5, No 20, October 15,1989, page®
A few days in Islamic Iran
I wanted to visit Iran to see the situation in that country after a decade of war with Iraq. The second seminar on Afghanistan, organized by the Center of International and Strategic Studies, at the foreign ministry of the Islamic Republic of Iran, made it possible for me to make the journey.
I was among 80 people from different Mujahideen groups who flew aboard a special plane to Tehran. Prof, Rabbani and Prof. Mujaddidi were also in the plane.
From the airport we were taken by bus to Howaiza Hotel at the center of the city. Prominent guests were lodged at Isdqlal Hotel (Old Hilton).
The first thing which attracted my attention in the morning was the Islamic dress of the Iranian women. We were having our breakfast in the restaurant of the Hotel from where we could clearly see the street. Men, women and children were going to work or school. Women wore black dresses which covered their whole body except for the face and hands. Women in Iran work in offices and factories, and a large number of girls attend schools and universities. Women are required to wear Islamic dress. For those who had seen the westernized women of Shah's time the achievement of the Islamic Republic was remarkable. The role of women in an Islamic Government is a much debated question. The achievement of the Islamic Republic of Iran can serve as an example for other Islamic countries.
I wanted to exchange money. One could exchange money in a bank or in the black market which made business along the streets with no restrictions. I preferred the free market but was surprised by the low value of Iranian currency.
We were taken to visit the war museum in Niawaran Palace, where the late Shah had his residence and offices. In the Museum, captured Iraqi tanks, helicopters, jets and other weapons were displayed. There were also samples of weapons belonging to different times in history. A former Afghan army officer, now a Mujahid, asked why the Mujahideen were not preserving captured Russian weapons to enrich our future war museum.
On the second day of our visit we were taken to a handicraft museum, where men and women wove carpets, painted miniatures and made fine pottery. We were impressed by the skills
By: Mohammad Es’haq
of the Iranian craftsmen.
In the afternoon we were taken to Imam Khomeini's tomb, where Professor Mujaddidi laid a floral wreath and prayed for the soul of the Imam. The Imam is buried about 20 kilometers outside of Tehran and a huge complex is being built around his tomb. The complex will include a religious educational institution, a hospital and a mosque. The complex covers an area of more than 100 hectares of land, and will cost two billion US dollars, to be donated by the people. Love for the late Imam is a dominating factor in Iranians' lives.
The second seminar on Afghanistan was held in a building belonging to the foreign ministry of Iran in the northern part of the city of Tehran. The venue of the seminar was prepared for about 200 people while 800 people attended the seminar. The presence of so many people had a negative affect on the arrangement for food and congregational prayers.
Despite lengthy talk about unity between Sunni and Shia, the congregational prayers were not attended by the followers both sects at the same time.
Dr. Velayati, the foreign minister of the Islamic Republic, gave a reception for seminar participants in one of the gardens in Tehran. The atmosphere was friendly; the food was delicious and the weather was very nice.
A large group of Afghans, wearing traditional clothes and traveling back and forth in buses escorted by police cars, was an attractive sight for the residents of Tehran.
Iranian officials were very careful in their remarks about the role of the Soviet Union in Afghanistan and their warning to the Mujahideen about possible American interference was wrapped in diplomatic words. Indirect reference to the Soviet Union was a sign of closer ties between Tehran and Moscow after Imam Khomeini's death.
Scholars attending the conference believed that there was no military solution to Afghan problem. They warned that the AIG had a limited amount of time to prove its credibility, if a solution is not to be imposed on Afghans from outside.
In the original program there were four papers on Loya Jirga (the traditional Afghan assembly), but these were omitted due to an ugly incident.
A French scholar read out a paper
about nationalities in Afghanistan and mentioned some local alliance between some parties. The representative of Shura-e-Ittifaq (a Shia group out of eighth-party coalition) became angry and started to make a scene by shouting anti-French slogans. Later it was understood that his reaction was based on a misunderstanding and the French scholar had not said anything offensive against Shura.
Papers about Loya Jirga and Zahir Shah, being controversial, were omitted to avoid further misunderstandings.
During our stay in Tehran, some Mujahideen saw that the Kabul regime's flag was hoisted among other flags in front of Istiqlal Hotel. They resented it, and were thinking of displaying a reaction. They were advised by their elders not to do anything which would hurt their Iranian hosts. Later we heard that a Kabul-regime delegation attending a UN-sponsored seminar was staying in the same hotel as the Mujahideen leaders. That was the reason for hoisting the regime flag.
The Islamic Republic does not recognize the communist regime in Kabul, but has not closed its embassy there; and the Kabul has an embassy in Tehran.
During my stay in Tehran I visited one of the editors of Kaihan Hawaii (a weekly paper). This meeting turned out to be very informative. He described the difficulties of journalism in the Islamic Republic. One of these was a shortage of paper. He showed a readiness to reflect in his paper Afghans' views on different issues regarding their struggle.
He said that defeating the enemy is much easier then reconstruction of the country. I thought that if Iran is facing problems despite having a central government, a united leadership and oil-wells, how great would be our difficulties: we have none of these at the moment.
At the end of the seminar I visited the bookshops near the famous Tehran University. Iran has many good things, but the best are the books which Iranian scholars have written or translated. Afghans rely a great deal on books printed in Iran because Iranians and many Afghans speak the same language. Unfortunately, due to paper shortages or some other considerations, taking books out of Iran requires a special permit from the Ministry of
Tumtopage ( 5 )