AFGHANews Vol 6, No 24, December 15,1990, page ®
Comment by:
Habibur Rahman
Soviets’ continued intervention prevents peace in Afghanistan
December 27 marks the 11th anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The Soviets intervened to prevent the overthrow of the communist regime in Kabul which was facing a popular resistance.
The Red Army fought for more than nine years to impose their puppets on the people of Afghanistan but failed. The Soviet troops left on February 15, 1988, but that country's interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan did not end with the departure their soldiers. The Soviets still have several thousand advisors in Afghanistan who help the Kabul regime in fighting against the Mujahideen and continue to give deadly weapons to them. Some of the weapons given to the regime were not even used during the Soviet inva-
sion. The Soviets want to keep the Kabul regime in power against the wishes of the majority of Afghans.
Afghans have paid a high price to defend their country and religion. The Mujahideen are determined to carry on their struggle until the Kabul regime is replaced with an Islamic and representative government and the independent and Islamic status of the country is restored.
Afghans hope to be helped by the international community in their struggle for the right of self-determination. The international community should put pressure on Gorbachev to abandon his aggressive policy in Afghanistan and let the Afghans decide the type of government they want
Former king presents peace plan
The former king has proposed a plan for the formation of a care-taker administration in Afghanistan to supervise elections.
The plan envisages formation of a 30 member committee of Afghan personalities who are acceptable to all the concerned groups.
The committee will draw up a list for the membership of an 'emergency Jirga' in consultation with the concerned parties.
Members of Jirga should come from the following groups:
’	- Mujahideen political parties and
commanders
-	Representative of other organized groups loyal to Jehad.
-	Scholars form inside and outside Afghanistan
-	Political figures living inside and outside Afghanistan.
-	Tribal elders
-	Representative of other effective groups.
The meeting of the Jirga will be held in Afghanistan, if the security situation permits, or in a neutral country like Turkey, Switzerland or Austria. The UN should provide facilities for the participators of the Jirga.
The Jirga will form a care-taker administration which will take charge of the country in the transition phase. It will have a mandate to formulate a constitution and invite a Jirga to adopt it and hold elections for the formation of a parliamentary government
The plan does not mention the
The Soviet Foreign Minister
name of the Kabul regime but the vague definition of groups which are supposed to participate might accommodate the Kabul regime in one way or other.
The plan envisages an intra-Afghan dialogue for choosing a 30 member committee. It leads to a third party solution in which neither-the Mujahideen nor the Kabul regime will have a role in the transitional period. Supporters of the king think that they are the best candidates to assume the interim responsibilities.
The Kabul regime's reaction to the plan has been positive and Najib might have discussed the formula with the supporters of the former king during his visit to Geneva. The Afghan Mujahideen have rejected the idea of a third party government and most of them will bitterly oppose a role of the former king because it might lead to the restoration of the old system.
i . - ,r: :
IMH ill
:|nd tespsh has been set on fee
Handicraft rifcnlavprl *	m
nanaicran displayed	Ningarfcar Province. H*e drug
A one-day exhibition of Afghan handicrafts was held at the pool side of the Pearl Intercontanental hotel in Peshawar on November 30. Items displayed included carpets embroidery, jewlary and leather products. The exhibition was organized jointly by several relief organizations working for the Afghan refugees, hems are made by the Afghan refugees under auspices of the relief organizations. The idea behind such projects is to keep the art of Afghan handicrafts alive aid provide some funds for the relief of the refugees.
return for food stag. The M&bs&
■11

Commander Of Soviet troops m
order si
■of USSR to the deteriorating law and Mm that country. ■