Vol 6, No 7	April	1,1990
UN demining wastes money
Tanai says he is still a member of PDPA
The UN demining program has been criticized by an expert who formerly ran the program.
According to Washington Post, Rae McGrath, a landmine specialist who spent 18 years in the British army before joining the UN's Afghan de-mining program as its field supervisor, said in an interview that the United Nations has grossly exaggerated the impact of its program, in part to raise money from Western donors.
He claimed large sums have been wasted on poorly planned and badly monitored educational programs for refugees.
"We’re not running a mine eradication program, which is what the donors are giving the money for and what needs to done,” McGrath said. After a dispute with his superiors over the program, McGrath said, he is preparing to leave the United Nations. Others associated with the program, who asked not to be identified, said they agreed with the thrust of McGrath’s criticism.
UN officials defend their mine program as the best possible under difficult circumstances. No massive mine clearance work can take place inside Afghanistan until the country's war between government and Mujahideen forces is over, they say, and in the meantime millions, of dollars are needed from the West to prepare refugees to clean up their country when they eventually go home.
The resistance groups had long since expressed their unhappiness with the program. If UN had listened to their suggestions and had worked with the field commanders, with a fraction of that money large areas could have been cleared of mines.
The ex-defence minister of the Kabul regime and leader of failed coup told reporters on March 14 that his struggle to overthrow Najib will continue.
General Shah Nawaz Tanai met with 30 journalists in a Hezb Islami base camp in Logar province, about 70 kilometers from Kabul, for the first time since the failure of the coup.
He said that his coup against Najib failed because Soviet planes bombed Bagram air base, which was controlled by his supporters, and disrupted his communication link.
He claimed that his supporters are still fighting against Najib northeast and northwest of Kabul.
Tanai was dressed in a military uniform and was accompanied by Niaz Mohammad Mohmand, a member of ruling party politburo, and two generals.
All his guards were Mujahideen from Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar).
He claimed that he was still residing in Afghanistan, leading the war against Najib from a mobile high command, but the journalists doubted this explanation.
He told the reporters that he had come from an area close to Pul-i-Alam, the provincial capital of Logar, to meet them.
Journalists were told by Mujahideen from another group that Tanai’s convoy had been seen moving toward Logar from the Pakistan border the previous day.
Tanai gave the impression of a professional soldier rather than a politician. He continuously consulted with Niaz Mohammad Mohmand when he was asked tough questions.
Tanai said that he was still a member of die PDPA and that he considered himself the legal defence minister Of Afghanistan.
In response to a question as to whether he had denounced commu-
nism, he said that he was bom a Muslim and Afghanistan was an Islamic country.
He added that the PDPA program should be changed so that it could play a positive role in the future life of Afghans.
He denied forming an alliance with Hezb, but said that the two sides have reached a tactical understanding to oppose Najib. He thanked Hikmatyar for his support to the coup^ against Najib, and asked other Mujahideen leaders to cooperate with anti-Najib forces. He said that despite past differences, he and the Mujahideen have a common goal to oust Najib.
General Tanai admitted his past mistakes, but said that he now has taken the people's side and thatthis action should compensate for his errors.
He asked his followers in the armed forces of the regime to cooper-ate with Hezb Mujahideen, so that the Kabul regime would be overthrown and an interim government could take its place, then hold free elections within six months.
He emphasized the heed for forming a revolutionary council of Mujahideen and patriotic military officers after Najib is forced out.
Tanai said that his uprising against Najib was aimed at paving the way for National Reconciliation.
He criticized the Soviet role in Afghanistan because of Soviet support to Najib during the coup, and preventing Afghans from determining their future. Tanai claimed that most of the soldiers defending Khost and Jalalabad were his supporters, and that they will surrender to the Mujahideen when he tells them to.
He said that he was busy reorganizing his forces and establishing contacts with them so that the war against Najib could continue. He predicted Najib's fall in the near future.