AFGHRH HEMS UOl.lll, HO.II, 1/6/1907,PB6E 4
 One of the pilots was killed and the other captured by Maulawi Usman from Harakat. The report does not specify the type of the planes shot down and does not clarify whether the pilot was captured by Harakat of Mohsini, a Sheeya group active in the area or Harakat of Mohammadi
 In retaliation to shooting down of Jets, the enemy attacked Jami'at base in Sholgar district.
 On 17/4/1987. the enemy offensive which was very large, was launched at 5:00 Pm. (something unusual because the Soviets usually launch their attacks in early hours of the day) Fighting continued for 12 days. 17 Mujahideen were martyred and 80 others wounded About one hundred civilians were either killed or wounded and a large number of houses were destroyed, The enemy used artillery and ground-to-groun^ rockets heavily against the villages.
 The enemy lost one Helicopter and 4 tanks and trucks during the offensive. Their human casualties (killed and wounded) mounted to 200 men.
 On May 10,1987.Mujahideen attacked the militia posts in the city of Mazar killing 11 of them and wounding 15 others
 On May 14,1987, Mu jahideen attacked the enemy post in Qool Taimor captured 2 soldiers with 2 guns, one communication set and ammunition. In the two operations two Mujahideen were martyred and one injured
                                            SAMANGAN PROVINCE
 According to a report from Samangan, on 22/4/1987, Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Khalil Khan blocked Polikhomri-Mazar high-way in Tangi Tashqorghan for 24 hours. This section of the road is very busy and most of the supplies coming from Russia pass through this highway The enemy made use of ground and air force to open the road
 The report does not give any devils about the casualties of the two sides Khalil Khan who was once a deputy of late Zabihullah Khan of Mazar is busy fighting the enemy in Samangan province
                                                  •
 According to another report reaching here Mujahideen from Jami'at in Khulm, the provincial capital of Samangan province, Aaibak district and Mazar city in the Baikh province, launched attacks against the enemy on April 27.1987 with ground-to-ground rockets The purpose of the attack was to protest against the anniversary of the communist coup In all three places the anniversary ceremonies arranged by the puppets were disturbed. The en .'my also suffered heavy casualties but the the report does not give any specific figures.
                                               SALANG VALLEY
 On 29/4/1987 Mujahideen from jami'at under the command of the well-known Sufi Mohammad Saeed of Shotol atlacksd a puppet post in Salang They captured 7 soldiers and seized 10 AK-47s, and PK machine gun, one communication set and some ammunition Mujahideen suffered no casualties
 On 5/5/1987. Enemy forces who wanted to launch a surprise night attack against Mujahideen were ambushed by the Mujahideen, Twenty four enemy soldiers were killed and 15 others wounded Two trucks were also destroyed in the attack The enemy failed in her mission and retreated in disarray
 On 17/5/1987. Mujahideen ambushed a Soviet patrol unit killed 3 soldiers and captured three Ak-?4s.
                                                      * * «