December 15,199
Vol 8, No 24
Clashes designed tc disrupt Hal-o-Aqd
The four-day armed clashes between Wahdat, a radical Shia party, and forces loyal to the Islamic government result-I ed in killing or wounding of , many people in Kabul.
The fighting started after a security incident in the north-l em part of the city, and quick-* ly spread to other parts of Kabul.
Some irresponsible armed men belonging to Hczb Wahdat stole a government car in Taimani district on December 4. The security authorities chased the thieves, which resulted in a brief armed clash. The situation was brought undeT control quickly.
The city became tense as the result of the clash, which led to incidents of kidnapping the next day.
The peace commission tried to prevent fighting but its members were alarmed by the preparation of Hczb Wahdat for a full-scale war. Fighting spread to various parts of the city very quickly, indicating Hezb Wahdat's pre-i paredness for the war.
When the clashes began, the Defense Minster Ahmad Shah Masood
l
was in Charikar, about 50 kilometers north of Kabul. He returned to Kabul to deal with the situation.
On Saturday night, Hezb Wahdat attacked the government positions at the grain silo and at Chindawal, one kilometer from the presidential palace. The government forces fought a defensive battle.
Since the government forces were not ready, Herb Wahdat captured Silo and the forces defending it retreated without offering much resistance. Hezb Wahdat also tried to capture Koh-i-Asmaie, dividing the city into two . parts, but the attack was repulsed by ' the government forces.
Hezb Wahdat tried to give the - .
clashes a racial color in order to rally Hazaras against the government. This trick worked in involving some commanders from Harakat of Mohsini m the war, but Division 80 which belongs to Hazaras of the Ismailia sect, did little fighting.
The forces of the Defense Ministry exercised restraint, generally avoiding the use of artillery and heavy rockets agiinst Wahdat to avoid civilian casualties.
To bring about a ceasefire, negotiations were held between the two sides. At the start, Wahdat showed no interest in a ceasefire- Wahdat leaders agreed to the ceasefire when they lost hope of any military gain
According to reliable sources within Wahdat, the moderate leaders of the party were unhappy about the start of war by Abdul Ali Mazari, the leader of Hczb Wahdat.
Mazari is a resident of Cbarkcm District of Balkh Province. At the start of Jehad, he developed differences with Harakat of Mohsini and was forced to flee to Iran. In Iran, he continued his religious studies in religious schools. When Hczb Wahdat was formed under the auspices of Iranian government, Mazari was appointed as the head of that organization. Mazari is believed to be very close to Ali Khamenei, the spiritual leader of Iran. He receives funds from Iran. But Iranian officials have told the government that the funds reaching Mazari comes from private sources and that the government was not providing any money to him!
Iranian diplomats in Kabul tried to mediate a ceasefire. Foreign Minister Ali Akber Velayati sent a letter to Prof. Rabbani expressing deep concern over the clashes in Kabul. During Velayati's visit to’Kabul, Afghan officials had complained to him about the extreme
policies of Mazari.
Hezb Wahdat expected Hikm to join fighting against the govemr According to a source in the Del Ministry, Mazari or his representat had met with Hikmatyar in Chara seeking Hezb's assistance before start of war. Hezb Islami had pror to send him arms and ammunition forces of Prof. Sayyaf preventer dispatch of Hikmatyafs supplit Wahdat during fighting.
The government believes Hezb Wahdat initiated the clash disrupt the Hal-oAqd council. Wahdat claims to represent all Af Shias who, according to Wahdat, I 25 percent of the population oi country. Convening of the Hal-o disproved that party's inflated clain When ihe government and W: were signing the ceasefire agreci forces belonging to Dostum carrie a show of force in the eastern pai the city, It was prompted by an acc involving security forces and a gro Dostum's men.
They quickly brought out tanks and took control of the road tween the airport and Balahisar. looted houses and beat up people; the roads. They also attacked a ut Mujahideen under Comm: Qasecm. Qasccm was injured and of his men were killed, and had to draw from Balahisar. Dostum f took control of these areas bccaus forces of the Defense Ministry wei expecting an attack from cast they were busy fighung in the wes Although the incident was scribed as 'misunderstanding' it i lieved that the show of force wa." planned to bully political conces from the government.
Government intelligence sc
To page (2;