AFGHANews Vol 8, No 14, July 15,1992, page
Dear Brother Engineer Es’haq, As-salaamu Alaikum.
On the occasion of the Islamic victory in Afghanistan, we organized a celebration here. One of your young men, Mohammad Hashem, came to speak. The advertisement of the program, which was published in the local paper, is enclosed with this. (It was all organized by my daughter Nadrat).
I sent a check for $100 to Kabul to you, c/o Ahmad Shah Masood. I did not have an address, but we wanted to be the first to contribute for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. (I hope it reached you).
I wonder if you know that Jamaat Islami of Pakistan's weekly magazine TAKBEER has been carrying on a very dirty campaign against Commander Masood and Prof. Rabbani. Week after weeks, they have been publishing stories against the victory in Kabul and have been accepting Eng. Hikmatyar's viewpoint in toto. (It is in Urdu).
Let us know the latest situation send us photos of Commander Masood in Kabul.
You must be even more busy now, but please don't forget the Muslim community here. We need your inspiration and the facts about the new Afghanistan.
Kaukab Siddique Baltimore - USA
Dear Mohammad Es'haq Enclosed is a copy of my most recent paper on Afghanistan. I hope you find it useful.
Please consider stopping by the Heritage Foundation the next time you are in Washington. We greatly enjoyed your last talk here and we would like to. host another luncheon talk for you or any of your associates, the next time they visit Washington.
James Phillips Deputy Director of Foreign Policy and Defense The Heritage Foundation.
Dear Editor:
I congratulate you on the occasion of the Mujahideen's victory, and pray for the success of the Islamic government.
I offer my-thanks to you that in the past fourteen years of Holy Jehad you have kept Afghans in exile, and the rest of the world, informed about the situa-
tion in Afghanistan.
We Afghans living in British Columbia province in Canada have been enjoying reading your paper, AFGHANews. I wish your further success in publishing the paper.
Sincerely
Eng. Abdul Karim Safi
Head of Afghan Association of
British Colombia - Canada
Dear Mohammad Es’haq:
I was very happy to receive nos. 10 and 11 of AFGHANews and to read about your return to Kabul. What a change from our first meeting in Faqirabad eight years ago when you told us, "A whole nation is dying. People should know." It reminds me of a Sura of Holy Quran that you once quoted in one of your extracts from the "Diary of Jehad." An old man was speaking at the funeral of his son, who had been martyred. He said; "Don not say that those who have died in the path of God are dead. They are living, but you perceive it not."
I do not know when you will receive this letter, but I hope it will not take too long. I wanted to let you know that I am planning to come to Kabul for a short visit. I will arrive on August 4 and leave on August 22.1 have sent a letter to Mr. Saljuqi to inform the foreign ministry. I am hoping to stay at either the UN Guest House or the German Club. I look forward to seeing you there. I also hope to meet Commander Masood and to visit Panjshir. I would be grateful for any help you can give. If there is time, I • would also like to travel to Logar, perhaps with the help of Dr. Fazlullah.
The purpose of my visit is to carry M>ut my own research. I hope to leam more about the new government and its relations to foreign powers and what you call the "patchwork of different Mujahideen groups", around the country. By the way, it seems to me that your comments are much more frank now that you are no longer in exile in a foreign country. I look forward to hearing more openly your thoughts on various questions.
Barnett R. Rubin
Associate Professor of Political Science Columbia University
I’.li
, the/Afnir
WUatojtY°messsage tat the
members of	wipg	pf	Jaraaaf
took part in ^^adSon in imppofc
•pf
.. ~	 rr_I.	j
V.'VFourhuadtfed televislon'se^loot^
Allah, Mohammad is the Prophet of The'.
* o£jgR
v;	 ■■	■	_