    AJEGHA1USESS___TQLJL1____ML1S_____UU13M______EAfiEjt
 months Soviet have established new garrisons along this valley and forced Mujahideen out.
 Mujahideen have restarted their activities . The Mujahideen of the area are commanded by Najmuddin who has resisted the Soviets since 1979. This area is mountanous and very cold. The people and Mujahideen need to bring their food
 from outside of the valley.
                         WAMDAX PROVINCE
 16/7/86. Mujahideen attacked the enemy headquarters in Maidan with 107mm. rockets. A car and two buildings were hit. Twenty enemy were killed and some other were wounded. Twenty soldiers joined the Mujahideen. ,
                         LOGAM PROVINCE 5/7/86. Soviets bombed Pad Khab and Lai Khaii villages of Logar, Twenty houses were destroyed and one woman was martyred . One of the enemy Jets was shot down by Mujahideen The enemy has used time-bombs for the first in the area.
                            KABUL PROVINCE
 16/7/86. Mujahideen of Jamiat attacked a convoy near Kalakan sub-district, along the Salang highway. Four tanks, 9 oil-tankers and 10 trucks were
 destroyed . The road was closed for 5 hours.
 In retaliation the enemy bombed the village of Sanglakh in Estaiif, 8 womenand children wrere killed and A others were wounded
                            PMTIA PROVINCE Chamii post dominates the junction of two rich and fertile valleys in Northern Paktia. Ail the surrounding villages have been heavily bombed by the Soviets, and the local population were forced to flee to neighbouring Pakistan with what little they could carry . The post is garrisoned by about 300 Afghan conscripts, press-ganged from various parts of the country, it is commanded by Soviet and Afghan army officers. Immediately around the post is a minefield , which acts more as a deuerent to desertion than as a defensive measure.
 At 6.00p.m on the 25th of June a group of 14 Mujahideen, under the command of Miralam of the Jamiat Islami party, attacked the post with 2 M75 recoiless rifles and an 82/ra.m mortar. In all 26 rounds were fired at the post and 2 direct hits were scored; the post retaliated with a heavy mortar barrage and Soviet artillary was called down on our position.
 At 8:00 p.m, as the light faded, the attack ceased with no casualties to the Mujahideen. It was learnt from reliable sources, that 22 Afghan army dead evacuated by helicopter the following day. In ail it was a well planned and well executed operation. Miralam and his group of Mujahideen showed great courage and coolness under fire from an enemy with far more firepower at their command.