AFGHAN NEWS
No. 15
                                                                                      13-10-85
p-49.
9z9-85
MAZAR PROVINCE
The enemy attacked Mujahideen positions in Sholgar District, After 2k hours of fighting, the enemy was forced to retreat. Three tanks and 3 trucks were destroyed and some enemy soldiers were killed dr wounded. Two Mujqhids were killed and k others injured in the operation.
 13^8-85
 The enemy attacked Mujahideen positions in Nahri Shahi DlstrijQt^
 The Mujahideen fought well. After five hours of fighting the enemy retreated lossing three tanks and some men. One soldier was captured along with his AK-47. One Mujahid was martyred.
 14-8-85
 Mujahideen from the Eastern parts of Mazar Sharif captured a Khad truck when it was on the way to Hayratan Port on the Soviet border.
 13f§-85
 Mujahideen set an ambush in Charsang village and oaptured two prominent members of the Father Land Front. These two agents namely Sham-sul Haq'and Khalifa Mohammad Gul were tried by a court ajad than. qtt■ cuted.
 Mujahideen attacked Father Land Front positions in Xoshak area and captured kO different types of weapons.
                       USE OF NEW SOVIET WEAPONS
 In their last attack, the Soviets used some new weapons against Mujahideen in the Panjshir valley.
 'One of the new weapohs used in this attack was a iong-range rocket (80 km) which is fired from their bases outside the valley. These rockets can spread anti-personnel mines.
                           ■                                               i
 In the last attack the Soviets also used 245mm mortars which have a shell of 130 kilograms. They have brought four of them inside the valley. Mujahideen have captured some o<ff its shells which are as tall as an average man.
                                                                      ■
 The Red Army has started to use a type of wire-guided rocket. These rockets are either launched from a helicopter or a portable launcher.
 The Soviets have started to make extensive use of seismic mines (these mines are known as wave mines among Mujahideen). These mines are planted by Soviet soldiers and the DBA forces know nothing about them.
 The Soviets have started to make use of night seeing devices for tactical missions. They stage raids and ambushes at night and penetrate Mujahideen controlled areas under the cover of darkness. Since the Mujahideen do not have this equipment, this could pose a serious threat.'