  | IN THE NAME OP ALMIGHTY ALLAH |
AFGHANIS
            A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN
                POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR-PAKISTAN.
                    VOL. Ill, NO. 4, 15/2/1987.
                                            A PARALLEL IN HISTORY
 Najib's unilateral ceasefire and reconciliation offer undoubtedly received some^ attention throughout the world A look at the mass media in the western countries shows that most comments -were in favour of the Mujahideen's standpoints; i.e. the rejection of Najib's offer as a foul play instigated by the Soviets, and that struggle ■will continue until the last soldier has left Afghan soil.                 ^
 However, this was not an unanimous reaction. Some of the editors in the western press who in the past have supported the Afghan cause are now slipping from their principles.
 They seem to have swallowed Najib's words, that the responsibility for further bloodshed will now be upon the shoulders of those who don't accept the ceasefire. To them the prospect of peace at any cost seems to be overshadowing everything else, and they don't ask themselves the most essential question: Peace for whom? To them it is obviously not important whether it will become a pax Sovietca; i.e. peace on Soviet conditions or a peace in accordance with the will of the Afghan people.
 It might be worthwile to remind these doubters in the western media of their own history, how the principles were upheld when they or rather their fathers fought their last big war against aggressive and powerful antagonist
 In the iporning of May 10, 1940, the Belgian and Dutch ambassador* in Berlin were informed by Ribbentrop, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Hitler regime, that German troops were entering their countries to protect their neutrality against an imminent attack by the Anglo-French armies. A German.ultimatum called upon the two governments to see to it that no resistance was offered. If it were, all responsibility for the bloodshed would "be borne exclusively by the Royal Belgian and the Royal Netherlands Government".
 Of course the Belgian and Dutch government decided to fight, and of course the resistance movements in both countries fought on during the five years which lasted until the liberation finally came.
 In the light of history the righteusness of these actions are evident in the European mind. So evident that not one of these editors, who today are unable to recognize the principal issue as regards to Afghanistan, for a second would dare to put the responsibility of the bloodshed in Holland and Belgium during the war on the shoulders of these patriots who fought against the foreign invader for the freedom of their countries.
 History continued and just a few months after the attack in the west, the Germans had occupied Holland. Belgium and France. The British expeditionary force had after a crushing defeat managed to escape over the Channel at Dunkirk. Hitler had once again proved the overwhelming superiority of his armies, and now only Britain remained of his adversaries.
 At this moment Hiltler offered Britain peace. In a speech in the German Reich stage (Parliament) July 19.1940, he said: "I can see no reason why this war must go on". He further declared, that he had no intention of bringing any harm to Britain nor to the British Empire. He only wanted a free hand at the European continent; i, e. to keep the