 TN THE NAME OF AfcLAH
AFGHANews
Published fortnightly by Jamiat Islami Afghanistan
 Vot 4. No 7
 April 1. 1988
           QIC asks Soviet leader to end occupation
  AH Alliance delegation asked the OIC foreign ministers s conference to recognize the interim government proposed by the Mujahideen. While the Conference demanded the withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan, it did not approve Mujahideen's request.
  A seven-member delegation headed by Amir Hamza participated in the OIC foreign ministers conference held in Amman.
  The Mujahideen delegation informed the Conference about the situation in Afghanistan and the Mujahideen's position on the Geneva talks.
  One of the main issues under discussion at the conference was the recent Palestinian uprising in the occupied areas. The Mujahideen delegation supported the struggle of the Palestinians for the liberation of their homeland.
  The OIC suspended the membership of Afghanistan after the invasion of 1979 by the Soviet Union and since then the Afghan seat has been vacant.
  The OIC has supported the position of the Afghan Resistance in the past and passed many resolutions calling for the ’withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan but has failed to condemn Soviet invasion by name. One of the reasons for this hesitation is the presence of so-called radical Arab states in the Conference who have good relationship with the Soviets.
  It was not surprising for the Resistance to see that their demand for the recognition of the proposed interim govermnt was not accepted. Some members of OIC may have thought supporting the demand of the Resistance, while proximity talks still continue, would be destructive to political process in Geneva.
  The Kabul regime warned the OIC against discussing the Afghan issue in its Amman meeting, but it was ignored.
car-bomb defused
 A car bomb was defused in Parachinar Kuram agency two weeks ago. The town is situated close to the Afghan border.
Peace . prize winner ur^es .direct talks
   A Nobel prize winner          and
members of the European
Parliament called on Soviet leader Mikhael Gorbachev to negotiate with j the          Afghan i
Mujahideen in a petition published by “Le Monde" daily at the eve of resumption       of
Geneva proximity talks            on
Afghanistan.
  The petition, bearing { 500 signatures, asked Gorbachev to talk directly with those fighting for their land, identity, dignity and independence.
    The signatories included Argentina's 1980 Nobel peace prize winner Adolfo Perez     Esquivel,
former French Prime Minister Laurant Fabius and Soviet emigre       writer
Vladimir Bukovsky.