 AFGHANews Vol 1 No 8. April 15,1988, Pegs 6
 Who ’s who of Mujahideen
      Commander Haji Khan
            Baluch
    MOHAMMAD Khan, known as Haji Khan Baluch, was horn 44 years ago in a village called Teerpul in Kohsan district of Herat located on the iran-Afghan border.
    ‘His father was a poor farmer from the Rakhshani tribe of the Baluchis*, said bis representative in Peshawar.
    Mohammad Khan's mother died when he was about six years old. Mohammad was sent to the nearest mosque by his father to learn the holy Quran. He was young when his father died, Mohammad had to take care of the family. He used to work day and night on a piece of land the family owned.
    "Mohammad was respected by others in his neighborhood because he was honest. Despite his own bad economic situation, he tried to be helpful to everyone", said a friend of Haji. He said ‘When Tar aid took power, the beads of minority groups were called to Kabul. We sent Mohammad Khan to bring us news from Kabul. He came back with one message. We have to fight. Taraki is a communist and a puppet of the Soviets, He formed a small group of about (0 people, They were attacking government posts and offices In the city at night to get arms."
    in 1981 he met with Ismael Khan at Doshakh mountains in Herat and joined the Jaml'at organization, in 1983 Haji Khan was appointed as the head of Kohsan district. He
 established his main bases in Hajiahad and Kakari and K hat an,
    Baluchis are an important minority group in Afghanistan living on the South-Western borders of the country in three provinces of Herat, Neemroo2 and Farah. They have close ties with Baluchis living on the other side of the Afghanistan border, in iran and Pakistan, A small Baluchi community is also living in the Soviet Union in a place called Sarakhs, close to the Afghan border. There is very little information about them.
    Except for some Shla Baluchis who live in Zabul of Iran, others are all Suni Muslims, The majority of them speak in Baluchi while the rest speak in a dialect called Brawl,
    Baluchis are divided into various tribes like Rakhshani, Brawl, Sanjarani, Gurgej, Narwee, Reegi and Durani. Out of these groups Rukhshanl and Sanjaranee are in a majority and all of them have good relationships with each other.
    The Soviets knew the strategic importance of the area that the Baluchis iive.In the past they have encouraged separatist movements among the Balochis of Pakistan and Iran and the governments of Afghanistan, Indudding the King, Daud and the present communist regime helped the Soviets in their designs. The Soviet purpose was to creat a united Baluchi state with close ties with Moscow. Such a state will give a strategic foothold for the Soviets at the
 mouth of Gulf. But the Baluchis of Afghanistan took arms and fought the Soviet occupation of their country bravely.
    Baluchis, especially in the areas of Herat and part of Neemroz have frustrated the enemy by actively participating in jehad. They formed their groups in various Islamic organizations and produced good group commanders like Ebrahim Khan. Wadood Khan, Saifuilah. Noor Mohammad and Haji Khan Baiuch.
 Infighting
  among
  militias
    ARMED clashes have continued over the past few months between DRA militiamen in Enjeel district East of the city of Herat.
    Eyewitnesses say a militia group headed by Fasel Ahmad is fighting with another militia group led by Mohammad Arif. Fazel's group is supported by the puppet army while Arifs band is helped by the Russian 4th Armored Division stationed In Herat. Both sides support their allies by giving arms, ammunition and even tanks.
    The two sides have suffered heavy casuattie.