AFGHANews Vol 7, No 3, February 1,1991, page ©


the sages
Even friendship has its limits
There was once a man who was a champion wrestler. He had mastered 360 holds and tricks, and used a different one every day of the year. It so happened that he was fond of one of his students, and taught him all his tricks except one. He kept on postponing the day when he would teach him the last trick.
The boy grew in strength and skill, and no one among his contemporaries was able to challenge him. One day, he boasted in front of the king: " My teacher is unchallenged only because he is older than me and because I respect him as my teacher. Otherwise, my strength is not less than his and my skill is quite equal to his.”
The king did not appreciate this boasting and ordered a match to take place. They cleared the broad wrestling ground and gathered ministers, courtiers and sportsmen to watch.
The boy charged out into the ring like a mad elephant. His master knew that his pupil was now stronger than him, so he used the 360th hold that he
had never taught him. The boy did not know how to counter it. He was helpless. His master raised him with both hands above his head and smashed him to the ground. The crowd cheered wildly.
The king congratulated the champion mid ordered a robe of honor to be given to him. He reproached the boy, saying: " You were ill-bred enough to dare to challenge your teacher and now you see how hollow your boast was!"
The boy answered: ” O lord of the world! He did not overpower me with his strength but rather because of one trick which he never accepted to teach me. Today this one trick gave him the victory."
The king retorted: " It was just for such a day that he had kept this trick! Have you not heard what the wise say? ' Never give a friend such power over you that if one day he tries to be your enemy, he can defeat you.'"
The teacher betrayed by his pupil said:" There is no such thing as loyalty in this world, or at least no one today knows the meaning of loyalty. Whoever learned a trick from me, finally tried to do me down."
Aid worker lauds Afghans patience
An American aid worker praises the patience and steadfastness of Afghan people in facing difficulties and attributes it their Islamic belief.
Robert Dole, head of a relief organization, has returned from a factfinding mission to Afghanistan, and told VOA that the people are facing an extremely difficult economic situation. Thousands of people in Badghis and Faryab suffer from malnutrition and diseases resulting from the war.
Praising their endurance and patience, he said if Afghans were not Muslim they would have gone crazy
because of the hardships they face.
He said if a Westerner had faced similar difficulties he would have committed suicide. But the Afghans' belief in Islam has given them extra-ordinary strength, said Dole.
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
Two are better than one, three than two.
Meaning: Two minds are better than one, and three than two.
Cm
♦CmI jSty l)lj
A wise enemy is better than a foolish friend.
Meaning: Seek good advice no matter what its source.
bj (I JaI diS Ik* C JiaI
There is no fault in a noble person while ignoble person has no fidelity.
Meaning: True blue will never stain.
Grandmother died and her fever ended.
Meaning: Death is the end of all; or, he that dies pays all debts.
Missiles kill six people
Six people were killed and five were injured by an incoming rocket in the city on January 19, Kabul Radio reported. The report accused Mujahideen of attacking civilian targets.