AFGHANews Vol 5, No 4, February 15,1989, page 2
News
From the battlefields
Carpet-bombing kills 600 in Salang, Scud missile kills 70 in Panjshir
MORE than 700 people have been killed and 1500 were injured by carpetbombing and firing of Scud missiles in Salang and Panjshir in the past three weeks.
The unprecedented offensive was launched under the cover of "opening the road for food convoys" but the Mujahideen say that die real reason for the attack was their refusal to negotiate with the Soviets.
Heavy bombardments of the bases of the Supervisory Council of the North started on January 18, and was carried out day and night
On January 23 a major offensive was launched against Jami'at bases of Salang and Panjshir.
These areas came under heavy artillery and rocket fire from the enemy bases in Bagram, Qala-i-Suikh and Senjed-Dara all located in Shemali plateau. At the same time, Russian high-altitude bombers heavily bombed the area. Later the ground forces of the Soviet and the regime armies launched their attack in Salang valley, through which the Salang highway passes.
Eyewitness reported that more thm 600 people were killed and 1200 were injured in Salang.
According to the eyewitness all the houses in Salang have been destroyed. The bodies of those killed were buried undo" the rubble of their mud houses or were lying in open air in the villages.
The enemy established new posts along the highway. On the same day clashes between the Soviets forces and Mujahideen was reported.
In one incident, three Mujahideen were killed. In another, 10 Soviets and six Mujahideen were killed in Qalatak area of Salang.
In addition to bombing by air Soviets have fired 21 Scud missiles into the Panjshir valley since January 25. A Scud missile killed 70 people in
the village of Khench about 60 kilometers inside the valley.
The enemy has fired seven Scud missiles into Bazarak, six into Rukha, four into Pushgoor and three into Khench.
Commander Masood, whose forces control Salang and Panjshir said that the reason for the attack was not open-ing the road.
According to Masood the real reason. for the attack was the refusal of the Mujahideen to hold talks with the Soviet Ambassador to Kabul, Yuri Vorontsov.
Soviets have been asking for talks with Commander Masood which was turned down.
Masood said die enemy also wanted to incite the Kabul population against the Supervisory Council of the North.
The Soviet took a number of elders of Salang as hostages and warned the Mujahideen if they attacked the Soviet convoys, the hostages would lose their lives.
The Soviet troops also set on fire two buses inside the Salang valley burning about 80 innocent people on January 26.
A US Government spokesman commenting about the attacks said that Soviet were perusing a "scorched-earth policy".
UN General Secretary said that he was concerned about the escalation of the war in which a large number of civilians were killed.
The Soviet attack took place in winter. The ground was covered with snow and temperature was below zoo.
Destruction of all the houses in Salang and lack of food and medicine is a big problem for die people.
In the past the Mujahideen reduced the level of their activities in Salang during the winter to avoid reprisal against the civilians.
Before the attack of January 23 the Salang highway was not blocked for food convoys. Some small attacks were taking place but no major offensive was launched by the Mujahideen. The Soviet offensive and the killing of hundreds and injuring thousands and destroying all the villages must have reason other than opening the road.
More than that, the attacks covered a large area. For example, Khench a village in Panjshir which was hit by Scud missile is about 60 Kilometers away from Salang. How could this at-tack be justified as a defensive measure?
The commander of Soviet forces in Kabul has confirmed the bombing of the Salang valley. The Soviets say that they had asked the civilian population to leave the area but no such warning was given.
Kandahar Province
On January 24 the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked communist posts in Baba Sahib Kotal killing 4 militiamen, wounding two and setting on fire one truck. On the same day, they destroyed two enemy posts near the airport. Enemy casualties were not immediately known. The Mujahideen lost nine men and two Mujahideen were wounded.
The Mujahideen attacked the enemy post in Baba Sahib on January 22 as a result of which five militiamen were injured. One Mujahid was also wounded in the operation.
Farah Province
A militiaman surrendered to the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Shindand district bringing with him four guns and one rocket launcher.
Herat Province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked an enemy post near Puli-Malan on January 25. The post was destroyed and three soldiers with their guns were captured.
The Mujahideen attacked enemy posts in Enjeel district on January 25. One truck, one communication set and eight guns were captured. The report does not list the casualties of the two sides.
The Mujahideen attacked enemy posts in Pushtoon Zarghoon district on January 29 .Two enemy soldiers were killed and 35 were captured. The Mujahideen seized 25 guns.
Turn to page (3)