Vol7,No22	November	15,1991
Zahir Shah is stabbed in Italy
Mohammad Zahir, the former king of Afghanistan, was stabbed at his villa outside Rome by a Portuguese whose motives are not known yet.
He was injured in the face, stomach and hand, and spent one week in hospital.
The 26-year-old journalist had gone to the former king's home to interview him. At the end of the interview, he stabbed him with a knife which he had pretended to be a present for the king. He was arrested immediately by the house guard and is being interrogated by the Italian police. The police have identified the attacker as an Angolan-born Portuguese.
The attack on the former king made headlines in the international media. The media suspected, a political motive behind the incident
Zahir Shah and his close relatives expressed guarded views about the incident because they were waiting for the outcome of the police investigation. The supporters of the former king in Pakistan and Europe, however, tried to exploit the incident by blaming the so-called fundamentalists Mujahideen parties for the attack. Some refugees organized meetings in Peshawar and Quetta in support of Zahir Khan. Most of the Mujahideen parties condemned the attack. All of diem have denied their involvement in the incident
The Kabul regime was quick to exploit the incident by blaming the "extremists", a reference to some Mujahideen groups, for the attack. Najib sent a get-well message to the former king.
m* To page (3)
Mujahideen meet with Soviets in Moscow
An 11-member Mujahideen principled offers to the resistance dele-delegation, headed by gation. The delegation held two hours Professor Rabbani, lias gone to of talks with the Russian Voice Moscow to hold talks with the President Alexander Rutskoi on Soviet leaders about finding a November 11. Rutskoi is an Afghan political sblution to the prob- veteran, locally known as Afghanskis. lem of Afghanistan.	His plane was shot down by the
The delegation left Mujahideen during a bombing raid and Islamabad for Jeddah, on its he was captured. Later he was released way to Moscow, on November in a prisoner exchange. The Soviet 8. During their one-day stay in government awarded him the title of Saudi Arabia, the Mujahideen "Hero of the Soviet Union." delegation performed Umra Prof. Rabbani also met with one and held talks with Saudi hundred relatives of Soviet servicemen officials.	missing in Afghanistan. They asked the
Prior to his departure from Mujahideen leader to set captive sol-Islamabad, Prof. Rabbani said he would diers free. Sympathizing with them, ask the Soviet leaders to end their sup- Pvof. Rabbani said a solution should be port for the Kabul regime and stop in- found to all the prisoners of both sides, terference in the internal affairs of He said Afghans have suffered more Afghanistan.	than the Soviets in a war imposed on
The Mujahideen delegation includ-. them, ed representatives from the Mujahideen The Mujahideen delegation met parties based in Peshawar and Teheran. Soviet foreign minister Boris Pankin Shaikh As if Mohsini, Mawlawi Nabi on November 12 to discuss the prob-Mohammadi, Sayyed Hamid Gailani, lorn of Afghanistan. Both sides de-Hashmatnllah Mojaddidi, Murtazawi, scribed the talks as very frank. Soviet Qazi Amin and Masood Khalili are in- leaders are proposing a. sort erf power eluded in the delegation.	sharing with the Kabul regime, while
The Hezb Islami of Gulbuddin the Mujahideen demand removal of the Hikmatyar, Ittihad-i-Islami of Prof, regime from power because they con-Sayyaf and Hezb Islami of Yunus aider it as the product of Soviet inva-Khalis have not sent representatives. sion. The Mujahideen delegation also Prof. Rabbani wanted to take a held talks with Shevardnadze, the for-Soviet POW as a gesture of good-will mer foreign minister of the Soviet but the prisoner refused to return to Union. The talks were continuing when USSR because he feared punishment this report was filed, by the Soviet government Ilham Journalists' reports from Kabul Yusepov, an Uzbek who has converted suggest that Najib seems worried about to Islam, stayed behind in Saudi the talks in Moscow. He has sent peo-Arabia. Prof. Rabbani took a letter from pie to Moscow and other European him to his father who had come to countries to collect information on the Moscow to demand the release of his talks. The Kabul regime depends solely son.	on aid, military and financial, from
The Mujahideen delegation Moscow, reached Moscow on November 10 and Nobody expects a breakthrough were received at the airport by Deputy from the current talks in Moscow. If Foreign Minister Nikolai Kazirov. the Soviets show enough flexibility, the Kazirov told the reporters that his door for future talks might remain country would propose attractive and open.