  AfGflA&KEWS_________YQL.il_______NCL2Q_____1W10/1986 PAGE .2
 3. With all the resolution and the continuation of the proxlmty talks, the war has continued, more people have become refugees and Afghahs have seen more death and destruction. The reason for this is lack of enough pressure from the international community on the Soviet invaders, and unreasonable expectations from the proximity talks.
 The world communty is now facing a new leadership in the Soviet Union. The new leaders are more sophisticated. They talk with smiling faces and give false hopes for peace. They talk about the withdrawal of 7,000 troops (out of 150,000) and a new approach to the issue,
 Those who are aware of the situation inside Afghanistan and see: the big military instalations built by them; knows about long term Sovietisation policies and witness the miserable living condition of millions of Afghans inside and outside the country; can understand the depth of Soyiet leaders'
 hypocracy.
 4 The UN membership of the puppet regime is a tragic phenomenon. A country is occupied by the Red Army and its UN seat is occupied by the representative of the Soviets. This is similar to the paradox of the membership of .two of the Soviet statess as the full members of the United
 Nations.
 The membership of the puppets in the UN has causecLmany political and humanitarian problems for the people of Afghanistan. Because of this membership a puppet regime Is gettng UN aid, while millions of Afghans are deprived of the humanitarian assistance inside their country. The membership of the regime can not be justified by any standards.
 5. Finally the voice of the people of Afghanistan is not heard directly. A resistance which has control over 80« of the land and is supported by the absolute majority of the people of Afghanistan, does not have the chance to speak about the problems that the AfcV.rn Motion is facing.
 The world community by now should have reached the conclusion that unnamed condemnations and polite requests to an invader to stop its attrocities is not enough, if they are really concerned about the faith of a nation, an old member of UN, they should take proper steps to put greater pressure on the Soviets.
                                AFGHAN MICE RESIST THE INVADERS
 in 1983 the Soviets planted numerous antipersonnel mines (Pressure type) around their positions and on strategic mountain peaks in the Panjshtr valley, in the spring of 198A Mujahideen started to clear these minefields, They were surprised when they saw that a large number of pressure mines had already been defused by the mice. The mice had eaten the plastic cover which makes the mines water proof. Once that cover is destroyed water can destroy the mine.