Vol 6, No 9	May	1,1990
US, USSR prefer ballot box solution of Afghan crises
Regime returns seized property
The Kabul regime has announced that it is ready to return property to people from whom it had been confiscated by the government, for various reasons.
Kabul sources have said {hat the step was taken for the sake of promoting	the	"National
Reconciliation" program.
A regime communique says that the property will be returned after ownership documents are produced. This condition will make it difficult for many people to claim their property because the ownership documents were either destroyed in the war or were taken when the property was confiscated.
The decision is designed to lure the refugees back and to enhance the Kabul regime’s image.
The Soviet Union has given two new types of weapon to the Kabul regime recently.
One of the weapons is a new type of heavy rocket which was recently used in fighting in Paghman and Maidan. Specifications of the rocket are not available but it is said that it has the shape of jet fighter. Some reports say that these rockets are capable of delivering anti personnel mines to a target area. The new rockets are deployed in Kabul to improve the security of the city.
The regime Special Guard has also received a new type of armored car of the DBR-2 type but it is not known how many of these vehicles they have been given., A Mujahideen source says that the purpose of giving the new weapons is to enhance the offensive capability of the regime army
US and USSR foreign ministers discussed Afghanistan in their talks in Washington on April 6, but could not reach any significant agreement.
The future rule of the Kabul regime is the main issue on which the two sides have opposing views. It is said that the two sides have shown interest in solving the issue through holding elections. The role of the Kabul regime in a transitional period is a contentious issue. The Soviet Union says that the Kabul regime is a major force in Afghanistan and should not be excluded from any solution. The Mujahideen refuse to participate in any process in which the regime is a part.
The meeting of the foreign ministers of the two superpowers was held to prepare the ground for their coming summit in Washington. The two sides also discussed arms embargo to the warring groups. The Soviet Union wants an immediate arms embargo and cease-fire. The US says that the arms embargo must be part of a comprehen-
around the city.
A Mujahideen source says that Soviet military advisors met with the commanders of Heavy Weapons and Special Guard of the regime recently in Kabul. They decided to intensify attacks against the Mujahideen outside the city of Kabul to force them to accept a cease-fire.
The Kabul regime also has plans to order some of its agents who have infiltrated some of the the Mujahideen organizations to join the regime to demoralize the Resistance and convince the UN that the situation in Kabul is returning to normal. The UN wants to give economic aid for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. Donor countries will help the UN program if the areas where it is implemented is relatively peaceful..-Hindukush News Agency (HINA)
sive deal for a solution.
It is suggested that the UN and the Organization of Islamic Conference (OIC) could play a role in supervising the polls.
Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto met with King Fahd in Saudi Arabia, and discussed with him the Afghan issue. Finding a political solution to the Afghan problem was the main topic in discussions between the two leaders. Saudi Arabia is a major supporter of the Afghan Mujahideen.
Iran's attitude towards any such program is vital because it has strong influence among the Shia parties. Any solution proposed by the US and Saudi Arabia will be looked on with suspicion in Iran. However, Iran seems interested in finding a political solution to the Afghan problem and its close relations with Moscow might help getting their agreement to solution agreed between the two superpowers.
Pakistani leaders discussed with the resistance leaders, in Islamabad on April 22. Elections was the main topic in the discussions. The topic has generated a new hope for a political solution to the problem. The Mujahideen leaders will discuss the issue among themselves to formulate their proposal. Earlier the Mujahideen had announced holding elections in the liberated areas but faced difficulties because Shia parties did not take part and Hikmatyar, Hezb Islami leader, was opposed to the methods. A feature of die new election proposal is that it will be held in the Mujahideen-controlled areas as well as the cities controlled by the regime.
Most of the Afghan resistance parties agree that the future of Afghanistan should be determined through elections but they are opposed to the participation of the Kabul regime in the process.
Regime receives new weapons