   ArgflABiffiys___yoiuii_____m.21_____uumm page 9
 In this complicated situation the truth mill disappear behind the clouds of the massive propaganda launched by the Soviets. Nevertheless those feui reporters uiho step out of the material benefit circle, risk their lives and endure molklng long distances mith not enough food to cover the mar deserve every appreciation. If these people mho hove seen the other side go to Kabul to cover the so-called mlthdromol they con not be misled. In that cose the just cause of the Afghan people mIH not suffer the may it Is suffering from the one-sided reports of Ignorant journalists nom.
 (THE FOLLOUINB LETTER UftS SENT BV PROF. B. RRB8RHI, THE LEROER OF JflHIRT ISLflHI OF RFOHRKISTRH TO WX THE UH HISSIOHS IN HEM VODK}
                                           IN THE NAME OF ALLAH
                                        Peshomar
                                        25/9/1986.
 bear Sir,
 On the occasion of the 41st session of the UN General Assembly I mant to dram your attention to the tragic situation In Rfghonlston.
 In April of 1979 a hondfui of Communists took power in Rfghonlston through a military coup. After their Initial success they started to impose an ofian may of life mhich mas in contradiction to our religious beliefs and social values. The people, naturally, resisted the impositions of the regime. The nem rulers used force to implement their plons. Thousands of people mere imprisoned and tortured and a large number of them mere killed, {the regime later admitted these atrocities and called them a mistake}. The people of Afghanistan hod no other choice but to take arms and fight back. War against the regime broke out and quickly spreed oil over Rfghanistan.ln the fall of 1979 a large number of districts and a fern provinces mere liberated from the regime's control. The Afghan Army, mhich takes its personne! through conscription, joined the people and mas reduced to 20,800 from a pre-mor size of 80,000.
 The Soviets mere supporting the Communist regime mith money, iveopons and a large number of advisers at all levels. All efforts to save the regime mere doomed to failure. The regime mas about to fall.
 rhe Soviets, mho hod long term designs in Afghanistan, mere not ready to accept the decision of the people of Afghanistan to choose the type if government they manted.They invaded Afghanistan on the Eve of Christmas 1979.
  ►ince then a cruel mar has continued. The Soviets have increased the lumber of their troops to 150,000. They have improved their tactics ind Introduced nem iveopons. As a result of this mar 5 million people 1/3 of the pre-mor popufetlon) have become refugees outside the ountry. Tmo millions more have become Internal refugees. Half a