AFGHANews Vol7, No 5, March 1,1991, page
Jami'at rejects Kabul's claim of massive Mu jahideen defection
Jami'at Islami has rejected report that an important Jami'at commander in Qaysar District, Faryab Province, has defected to Kabul regime forces.
Kabul claimed that Reza Khan Alakozay joined the regime along with
10,000	followers, 4,300 of whom were armed.
A Jami'at officer from Faryab province told AFGHANews that no Mujahideen commander in the area has so many armed men under his command. He said Reza Khan Alkozay was a minor commander who led at most 200 men and controlled 3 villages with a total population of about 1000 people. The area he controlled was called Do
Aabi which is situated on Qaysar and Ghormach District of Badghis Province. He came from a Kuchi (nomad) tribe, a minority group in the province.
He said Reza Khan once had applied for Jami'at membership but his appeal was rejected because of his bad reputation.
The source said he was not aware of Reza Khan's joining the Kabul regime, but even if the news were true, the figures given by the Kabul regime are highly exaggerated. Furthermore, the commander is not a member of Jami'at, as the regime has claimed.
Resistance has more fighters, Kabul regime more weapons
An American military expert says that the Kabul regime army has become stronger since the Soviets left Afghanistan two years ago.
Colonel' James Corcoran, the Director of Asian Studies at the National War College in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, told VOA that the Kabul regime had a total of 158,000 armed men who are equipped with good, weapons provided to them by the Soviets!
The regime army has 58,000 men,
8.000	of whom belong to the air force. The Special Guard Division has
25.000	men, and is assigned to defend Kabul.
Col. Corcoran said in addition to die regular army, the Kabul regime has around 100,000 paramilitary forces who are divided into the following categories:
1-	Border guards: 20,000 men under direct control of the army.
2-	WAD (regime secret police) armed forces: 20,000 men
3-	Local militias: 32,000
4-	Police forces: 20,000
Colonel Corcoran said the Kabul
regime army has T-62, T-54, T-55, and PT-76 tanks, 122 and 130mm self-propelled guns-and several types of rocket launchers. The Soviets have also given ground-to-ground SCUD missiles to the Kabul regime.
He said die Kabul regime also has armored cars of BMP and BTR types which move on wheels rather than on treads.
He estimated the number of Mujahideen at 180,000 men operating all over Afghanistan, and mainly belonging to the seven parties based in Peshawar.
Warsaw pact is dissolved
The Warsaw Pact, whosemilitarystructure was dissolved on February 15, supported the Soviet aggression in Afghanistan by providing funds and logistical supplies to the Red Army. The empty cans of Bulgarian canned food can still be found beside empty cartridges olf Russian shells in abandoned Soviet trenches all ova: Afghanistan. Czechoslovakia trained the puppet army to repair weapons and provided trucks for transportation. The East German secret police trained regime police and provided KHAD with deadly assassination weapons. One such weapon, a two-barrelled pistol and poisonous shells, made in East Germany, were given to a KHAD agent to assassinate Commander Masood. The agent defected and handed over the weapon and ammunition to the Mujahideen.
The end of this military organization is good news not only for Afghans but also for the people of Eastern Europe. The pact was used by Moscow to crush popular movements which struggled for democracy and freedom.
Peter Tomsen, US special envoy to the Afghan resistance, has said that the Soviet Union, which brought the Kabul regime to power and protected it with the Red Army, now gives it 3500 million dollars per year to keep it in power, VOA. reported.
He said the Kabul regime has fired 2500 SCUD missiles against die Mujahideen since Soviet troops withdrew, and that the Soviets also provided the regime with BM-27 rockets and other deadly weapons.
Referring to a report by the Soviet news agency, TASS, he said three-fourths of Soviet foreign aid is given to the Kabul regime.
He said the Mujahideen control 80 percent of Afghanistan and they continue to capture more areas. Liberation of Tereenkoot, the provincial capital of Urozgan, was an example.
fOK

J
Bound sets of the 24 issues of AFGHANews 1990 are available for sale at:
AFGHANews P.O.Box 264- Peshawar Pakistan Price in Pakistan Rs. 30, abroad $10 (including airmail)
STOCKS ARE LIMITED.
l^^Lsri
IT^J
9{dp us puBCish
(Phase send your donations to tfie fodowing account number:
yEMXD S\ccount(S[p. 735-37 (Habib tBan%_Ltd . ‘TefikaC Hcda, ‘Peshawar (Pakistan