AFGHANews Vol 7, No 5, March 1,1991, page 0
which opened schools in ' the refugee camps. Tens of thousands of students attend its schools in Pakistan. It has also opened 200 schools in Iran in which about 40,000 students study. JIA has opened hundreds of schools inside Afghanistan.
JIA has paid special attention to opening Madrasas (religious schools) and schools for memorizing the Holy Quran. One of such schools, Madras-i-Abuhanifa, has 3000 students.
It has opened several girls' schools inside and outside Afghanistan and has established a police school and one academy of Islamic sciences.	,
The educational activities of JIA are aimed at giving an opportunity for young Afghans to leant reading and writing and to train them so that they can assume responsibility in the government after the liberation of the country.
The brain drain of educated Afghans is a major problem for Afghanistan, fit order to slow down this process JIA opened a Scientific Board in Islamabad where scholars could carry out research in different fields. Although this organization was not totally successful, some Afghans scholars made use of its facilities to do academic work, some which has been published.
JIA was the first party to publish its own paper before the April Coup of 1978. The paper, called Jami'at, was written by hand and was edited by martyr Shiwan. Now JIA publishes papers and magazines in Persian, Pushtu, English, and, Arabic. Mujaliid, Inqilab Islami, Misaq-i-Khoon, Al-Mujahidoon, and AFGHANews are die major publications of the party. It also publishes several papers from inside Afghanistan. The women's branch and the youth wing of JIA publish their own papers in Peshawar and Tehran . The party has published many books and booklets, written by its members, in many languages.
To promote sports, JIA has opened an Olympic Committee in Peshawar and another in Tehran.
In the reconstruction field
JIA is providing medical services to die people in Afghanistan. Despite war conditions, hospitals are built and with the passage of each year their performance is improving. The party has built new roads and repaired old ones and has constructed a number of irrigation channels, buildings for schools, mosques and health clinics.
Maintenance of law and order in the areas controlled by JIA is a major achievement of this party..
Opening orphanages to take care of the orphans was a good step. Madina
Orphanage in Peshawar has evolved into a model institution.
JIA has laid the foundation of an administrative unit at the provincial level-in Takhar which is run in cooperation with some other Mujahideen parties. In Herat and one part of Badakhshan, controlled by Sayyed Najmuddin. effective administrative units have been established.
JIA realizes that it has only started the reconstruction work, a lot is yet to be done.. Without reconstruction the Islamic revolution in Afghanistan will be lost along the way. But the major reconstruction work will start when the Mujahideen have liberated Afghanistan.
Current situation
rill?
Students protest against the AIGI
Police on Feb. 27 <&■■■ group of Afghan students and refn gees who attempted to marc^B
a
perse the crowd. The Frontier post
' | mainly by I 1	•"	Hezb	Islami
Despite some progress in the battle- N{Hikirhi^ar}, raised slogans
I	'	!
Mujahideen commanders have planned	days	before,	a	group of
to coordinate their activities. It is hoped that [ Students* belonging 10 Prof. SayyaTs die implementation of their program will	parties,
bring a posiuve change m the situation. j	f	-
The Kabul regime’s maneuvers had | WtOtlStratOft in front Of.the AIG head*
created an impression in the mind of outsid- |$j|: ers involved in Afghan issues that the re- I' j^asoB gime was gaining victory in its war for sur- i;::
vival. It was a short-lived impression followed by attempt to involve the-former king in the political game.
Outsiders seem worried about the formation of an Islamic government. But the roots of our problems are inside Afghanistan. If we solve our internal problems, it does not matter what the rest
^■300
;Governmi
' ' M the four dj ■■the AIG. |
KTiFour Ii
fcnfbr the samel ■it more than] to Saudi Arbia all «f fee Saudi] k| Arabia is one of | which recognizes
C0ffl<
world says. We will succeed.	irt	Kandahar
JIA believes that the Kabul regime	m	RallUdilal
must not play a role in die political solution E ' '	*'”*“'’*’*	m	thi*
of the Afghan problem. Its criminal leaders can leave the country and its ordinary mem-

forgiven.
The Mujahideen parties should act together. Any coup attempt or operation by individual parties will not solve the problem. Since the Kabul regime is not ready to give up power peacefully, the Mujahideen should not forget their fighting responsibilities.
The Mujahideen should re-organize themselves. Small independent groups cannot do a proper job. Limited attacks on weak points of the enemy should continue until weather conditions are suitable for large scale operations in the new Afghan year.
Changes should be introduced in the AIG structure to make it effective and it should continue its work until a new council has been formed. This council will decide the future of the AIG.
mmm
12, ICRC reported:

Council teachers hold seminars
The Education Committee of the Supervisory Council has held two seminars for teachers and one for headmasters in Takhar, Hindukush ' News Agency reported.
The first seminar, in which 50 teachers from Takhar and Kunduz Province took part, lasted from December 31 to February 6 in Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar. The second 7-day seminar, attended by 50 teachers, started on February 7 . The seminar of the headmasters which started on February 23 ended on February 29.
In the seminars, teachers and headmasters are taught new teaching and administrative technics.
A similar seminar in which teachers from Kapisa and Parwan provinces took part was held in Panjshir.
Party men purged
Abdul Karim Misaq and Hashmatullah Kaihani, the two prominent members of the PDPA, have beat expelled from the party. This was the second purge since the abortive coup attempt by Tanai about one year ago.
Misaq, who was until recently mayor of Kabul, was a member of the politburo of PDPA when it seized power through a military coup in April of 1978. A paper in Kabul reported that Misaq had sought asylum in Germany.
Kaihani was once a powerful figure in the propaganda department of the PDPA and last served, as ambassador to North Korea, from where herefused to return when recalled.
International Red Cross <
aired by MU ■ of Hezb
donate. A
He^:pi8ii

who messed them,M|||||MI pjlQftC'^bas ' 1622 ■ of$|||| Pakistan and Afghanistan toj war natitfts. 7n*MHRii^N been cnao/cd by wine
! killed m Herat province last summer
iiiiiliioiiatell
Nqpb, is collecting funds to help Iraq. This group also staged pro-Sadtfcun dononstrationsln Kabul. The founder of this party is repotted to have der