AFGHANews Vol5, No 3, February 1,1989, page 2
Herat province
THE Mujahideen from Jarm at destroyed an enemy jeep and killed all its occupants in Kamar Kalagh area on lerat-Torghondi highway on 29 December.
Three Mujahideen were killed in the operation.
In a separate attack on enemy posts in Shaghalian area, eight enemy soldiers were killed on December 30. The Mujahideen captured five kalashinkov rifles and one truck.
On the same day. Mujahideen from Ghoryan and Zendajan districts am-)u$hed an enemy convoy on Kal Shada on Herat-Islam Qala highway. As a result of one tank and one truck belonging to the regime were destroyed, fifteen soldiers were killed or wounded and one soldier was captured.
•#0The Mujahideen from Jami’at attacked an enemy convoy on Herat-Kandahar highway on January 14, as a result of which 3 trucks were destroyed, two officers were killed and an unknown number of soldiers were wounded or killed.
•The Mujahideen attacked an enemy post in Jarkan area close to the city of Herat on January 19, as a result of which one officer and 6 soldiers were killed, 4 soldiers were captured and five weapons woe seized.
•The Mujahideen attacked the enemy posts 'in Pash toon Zarghoon District on January IS. As a result 10 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded, 5 soldiers were captured and 15 guns were seized.
•The Mujahideen in Adraskan Distript attacked a DRA convoy on 19 January. One truck was destroyed, 15 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded and 8 soldiers were captured.
Baghlan province
The Mujahideen fired ground-to-ground rockets into the Soviet base in Kailagay on 16 December. One parked helicopter, 20 tanks and trucks were destroyed, an ammunition dump was set on fire and several houses were damaged. An unknown number of Soviet soldiers were killed or wounded.
On December 27, the Mujahideen fired rockets into the Soviet base in Kailagay destroying four helicopters, two trucks and setting on fire several tents. The enemy also suffered casualties but figures were not available.
On the same day, the Mujahideen destroyed a Soviet tank and killed all its occupants by RPG fire in Sang-i-Sorkh area in Kailagay.
The Soviet base in Kailagay, east of Puli-Khumri town has been a target of the Mujahideen attacks in the past several months. Kailagay is located north of Salang on the highway between Kabul and Soviet border. The base is being used as a transit point for transportation of goods between Kabul and the Soviet border. -
The Mujahideen from Jami’at under command of Joora attacked the security post of the Sugar Mills in Baghlan on January 1. Sixty regime soldiers were killed, 12 soldiers were captured and the rest escaped. The Mujahideen captured 152 Kalashinkov rifles, one mortar, one tank and some ammunition. Two Mujahideen were killed and two others were injured.
The next day, the Mujahideen from Jami’at under the command of Mulla Shams and the Mujahideen from Hezb under the command of Mamoor Ghayoor attacked the security posts around Baghlan city. Most of the posts were destroyed. The Mujahideen captured nine tanks, two of which were not in working condition. Mamoor Ghayoor captured six tanks and Mulla Shams one tank. Two Mujahideen be-
longing to Mulla Shams were killed and Mulla Shams and 27 Mujahideen were injured in the operation.
The report adds that because the Mujahideen were preoccupied in evacuation of the injured Mujahideen from the battleground, most of the enemy soldiers of the posts under attack managed to escape.
Mamoor Ghayoor has cordial relations with the Mujahideen from Jami’at and he has been cooperating with them in fighting against the enemy.
North of Afghanistan
Soviet and regime planes have been bombing areas controlled by the Supervisory Council of the North since January 18. The bombing still continues.
Bombing started after the regime warned the Mujahideen of the Council to refrain from attacking convoys on Salang highway. The warnings were ignored. The Council bases in Farkhar, Worsaj, Khailab, Khost-o-Fering and Panjsher have been bombed by Soviet jets heavily. In the north 13 people have lost their lives and an unknown number have been wounded. Air raids against the villages are carried out day and night
Panjshir is receiving most of the bombs but casualties have not been reported.
Since the Mujahideen of the Council do not have enough shoulder-fired rockets, they rely on machine guns for defence against the enemy planes.
The Council of the North, a regional organization of Jami’at, has built strong bases along the Salang highway, the life line of the regime bringing supplies to the capital.
In indiscriminate bombardments the civil population suffer the most. Since bombing is taking place during the winter it must be very difficult for old men, women and children to live in caves to protect themselves.
Badakhshan province
The Mujahideen from Jami’at under the command of Basir Khalid captured a strong enemy post in Faizabad city on January 16.
40 soldiers and 4 officers of the regime were captured. The Mujahideen seized the following weapons:
1-	45 Kalashinkov rifles and five heavy machine guns
2-	Two 76mm Howitzers
Turn to page ( 5 )