--------------------------- AFGHANews	Vol	5,	No	7,	April	1,	1989,	page	©
News
From the battlefields
k	    -
Salang
More than 200 soldiers and officers of the Kabul regime stationed in the Salang joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at on March 14th.
The unit which included 165 soldiers and 43 officers were stationed in Olang area about 5 Kilometers south of the tunneL They handed over die following weapons to the Mujahideen:
1-Kalashinkov rifles	170
2-Light machine guns	5
3-Heavy Machine guns	5
4-Rocket launchers	6
7-Mortars	5
8- 76mm howitzer	1
9- And aircraft cannons	2
10- Armored cars	12
11- Trucks	4
12- Radio set	1
On March 26, the* Mujahideen killed or wounded 26 enemy soldiers	
and captured 25 soldiers when they attacked their post at the mouth of the Salang valley, near Jabul Saraj.
The Mujahideen seized 29 Kalashinkov rifles, one pistol, two DShK guns and three mortars.
The Mujahideen also captured three tanks and some ammunition and* since they were not able to take them they were set on fire.
Kabul province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured 13 soldiers and killed six when they attacked an enemy post, west of Kabul city on March 5.
The post was located near Spozmai Hotel in the vicinity of Qargha Dam. The Mujahideen seized 15 Kalashnikov rifles, one pistol and one mortar. The
Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
The operation was launched under the command of Mullah Ezat of Paghman,
In another operation the Mujahideen from Jami'at captured 30 soldiers and officers of the regime on March 21 when they attacked their posts in Surkh Kotal.
The posts which were parts of the security belt of the city of Kabul were destroyed.
The Mujahideen seized 30 Kalashnikov rifles, four machine guns, one RPG-7 rocket launcher, one mortar and some ammunition. The attack was launched by the Mujahideen under the command of Mullah Ezat
Herat province
The Mujahideen launched a coordinated attack against the enemy posts in and around the city of Herat on March 14.
Ten tanks and trucks were destroyed and an unknown number of enemy soldiers were killed.
The enemy retaliated by aerial bombing of the Mujahideen-controlled areas killing 28 Mujahideen and civilians and wounding 35.
Herat-Kandahar and Herat-Toorghondi roads are cut and fighting still continues. The Mujahideen from Jami'at in Gulran district captured 11 soldiers, destroyed four enemy trucks and seized 30 light weapons when they attacked an enemy post in that district on March 12.
Jawzjan province
More than 300 militiamen joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at on March 2 bringing with them large quantities of aims and ammunition.
The defecting soldiers belonged to an enemy battalion stationed in Aqcha
city. Among them were 300 militiamen and 10 officers who surrendered to
Pahlawan Ahmad, Jami'at commander in die district. They brought with them
the following items:	
1- Armored cars	2
2- Trucks and jeeps	8
3- D-30 artillery pieces	2
4- Mortars	4
5- Heavy machine guns	30
6- Radio sets	8
7- light weapons	300
8- Large quantities of ammunition	
and foodstuff.
Jalalabad
A stalemate situation prevails at the fighting fronts around Jalalabad. When the Mujahideen launched their offensive to liberate Jalalabad they scored some significant victories in the initial stages of the offensive but could not keep up the momentum.
The Mujahideen launched their attack on March 7. Fighting continues around the airport, 11th Division headquarters and the city itself. In the second week of the fighting, the Mujahideen cut the Jalalabad-Kabul road to stop supplies and reinforcements from reaching the besieged city.
The Mujahideen make extensive use of ground-to-ground rockets against the enemy while the communists make full use of their air power against the Mujahideen.
The Mujahideen belonging to different parties cooperate with each other but a single command does not exist. According to some experts this, and lack of experience in conventional
fighting are the main reasons for the slow progress of the Mujahideen.
The Soviet Union and the communist regime have accused Pakistan of direct involvement in attacks against Jalalabad. Pakistan has rejected die allegations.
The initiative is still in the Mujahideen's hands. The communist forces are isolated further as each day passes by.	x
It is difficult to predict when the war will end and what will be the result of it Experts think that the regime forces can not go very long without
enough supplies of food and ammunition.
Although the casualties on the Mujahideen side are relatively heavy, the morale is still high.