AFGHANews Vol7, No 21, November 1,1991, page ©
As part of a nation-wide publicity program, a film festival of Afghan Mujahideen was launched in Melbourne on October 5. It was attended by more than 130 people from different backgrounds.
The festival was opened with the recitation of the Holy Quran by Enayatullah. The Australia representative of Jami'at Islam, Mahmoud Saikal, spoke on the current developments of the Jehad and briefly outlined the background information to the films.
The footage shown in the festival included:	"The Council of
Commanders", "The Courageous Men of Balkh", "The Battlefields of Paktia” and a general analysis of the Jehad by Mujahideen Commander Ahmad Shah Masood.
Various Mujahideen publications in Dari (Faris), Pash too, English, Arabic and Turkish languages were on
sale. More than 25 video tapes, mostly that of Commander Masood's speech, were sold.
More than $700 was collected from the ticket and publication sale for the victims of the recent bombing of the Zindajan District in Herat. Zindajan has been continuously bombed by the Kabul regime, sine May 4, as a result of which more than 35,000 civilians have left the city.
The festival, organized by Afghan Mujahideen (Jami'at Islami Afghanistan) representation in Australia, was earlier shown in Sydney. It is expected to be touring Canberra and Perth in the near future.
Copies of the videos are available in English, Arabic and Turkish languages, as well as Dari and Pashtoo. To buy your own copy ($20), please write to: JIA Australia Office
GPO Box 3098, Sydney 2001 or ring on 02-7598013.
Mujahideen score victories in Herat
Allauddin Khan, Jami'at chief commander in Herat and the deputy of Commander Ismail Khan, told BBC that the Mujahideen attacks on the Kabul regime security posts in different districts and airport of Herat on October 10 have resulted in the fall of some posts close to the city and closure of Herat-Kandahar road.
He said fighting between the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime continued all over Herat, including Zindajan District
Allauddin said Zindajan was still besiegfed by the regime troops who allowed no food to the city.
When asked why did the Kabul regime launch such a big attack on Zindajan, he said: "The'Kabul regime had a dual objective from launching attack on Zindajan. Firstly, it wanted to prevent the Mujahideen from launching attacks against the enemy targets in Herat and the neighboring provinces. Secondly, it wanted to avenge the defeat it had suffered in Khost."
Reacting to the proposal that Khaliqyar should serve as Prime Minister in a transitional gorvemment headed by a Mujahideen leader, he said: "Khaliqyar is a loyal servant of the Soviets. He has been involved in the killings carried out by the regime in
Afghanistan.
He was wounded in Pashtoon Zarghoon incident Such people cannot be included in the government.
The
Mujahideen should be allowed to form a transitional government. Elections should be held and power should be handed over to those who enjoy the support of the majority,"
SAZA leaders sent to jail by Kabul regime
The leaders of SAZA, a communist faction active in the North, Mirza Abdul Rahim, Hakim Sediqi, Jalil and Rashid Tatar have been arrested by the Kabul regime for their failure to put up effective resistance against the Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council. These leaders had escaped to Kabul after the Mujahideen of Ahmad Shah Masood defeated their forces in Chah Aab, Rustaq and Khwaja Ghar, Takhar Province.
Samad, another leader of SAZA, escaped arrest by striking a new deal with the regime secret police (WAD) WAD officials told Samad if he left his party and joined their organization, he would be protected. He accepted the offer and was posted in Kunduz to defend a section of that city.
Facing two fronts
From page (1)
Najib promoted six colonels fighting in Gardez to the rank of general. The seventh was promoted after his death. The Kabul regime suffered a set back when the governor and head of Watan Party of Paktia was killed by a Mujahideen rocket. Najib called his death a great loss.
The Mujahideen accuse Soviet Union of increasing the level of arms supply to Kabul after the fighting began in Gardez. The Soviet Union and US had agreed not to increase the current level of arms supplies to the two sides in the conflict.
faqqa$j| thought that tie ■ere below him M^Dnthat the Prophet (peace®
\	is	v	>'-
|m) said:
ijj gSr fm gain y^ot.iicto^-ljaw
^	^ ^	jjjj||
blessings antb mvo|
lain!