AFGHANews Vol 6, No 2, January 15,1990, page Q
Panjshir reconstruction committee lacks necessary funding to rebuild the Valley
In the. April 15th edition of Afghanews an article was written which covered the activities of the Reconstruction Committee for the Panjshir Valley. We thought it might be interesting for our readers if an updated article was written about the work of the Reconstruction Committee and the various problems they are encountering.
The Reconstruction Committee is still headed by Engineer Kamaluddin.
It is located in a small building in the University Town sector of Peshawar. The committee is divided into a number of different departments each with their own responsibilities which includes road building, mapping, surveying and planning. As one walks into a room designated to each department, it becomes apparent that there is a major shortage of necessary technical equipment. The departments have only the barest of necessities in terms of equipment to conduct their work. However, these shortages are partly made up for by the application and dedication of the staff. Everybody appears to be very busy with their work and it became evident that the staff really believe in the desirability and meaningfulness of their work.
The Reconstruction Committee has produced a number of finalized plans for important projects involving road repair and construction, and the building of health clinics, mosques, schools, houses, bridges and culverts. However, unless additionally sources of funding can be found then these projects cannot be implemented. The Reconstruction Committee is facing a financial crisis where they cannot even pay the full salaries of their own staff. Presently the Reconstruction Committee is receiving funds for its projects from Afghanaid, The Swedish Committee For Afghanistan, VITA, and representatives of the Reconstruction Committee are presently negotiating with the UN agencies working for Afghanistan about die possibilities of receiving additional funding.
One of the major successes of the Reconstruction Committee has been the construction of a road from border of Badakhshan over the famous Dora Pass. The construction team only had one bulldozer and had to work in the harsh and cold environment of mountains towering over 4500 meters. Despite the working conditions the road was completed in just six months
By: Umar Jessurun
which surprised many critics who said that such a project could not be achieved. If the road is connected to the Northern road system, then it will considerably promote the ease of transporting relief goods and reconstruction material to the people living in the Northern part of Afghanistan, who are presently suffering from major shortages of food, medicine and other necessary relief items.
Kamaluddin's Committee help the people of the Panjshir Valley by giving them seed, fertilizer and oxen for ploughing, so that they can produce their own food.
Work has begun on three new irrigation channels with available funds. Their completion depends on the availability of further funds. Once they are completed it will be beneficial to the local people in producing farm products. New farms created by the channels will be given to families badly affected by the war.
The Reconstruction Committee is busy building two stretches of road, one is in Paryan where 25 km of the road has been completed and the other is in Dara Side Valley where 3 km of the road has been built.
An unfortunate incident confronted the Committee concerning a planned pilot project to build a small hydroelectric plant in Bazarak. While the turbine was being transported from Chitral, a explosion happened and four technical people died and all of the equipment was destroyed.
One of the major aims of the Reconstruction Committee is to train Afghani citizens to carry out survey work of war damage in the areas of Panjshir, Baghlan and Takhar. So far the Committee has trained 30 young men, who have all spent three months studying in Peshawar (Pakistan). These men are now working in three teams head each by an experienced engineer. When these men return from their work inside Afghanistan, they will receive further training to extend their knowledge.
The work of the Reconstruction Committee is welcomed by the local people and the various Mujahideen units controlling the areas where projects are presently under construction. Of particular significance has been the construction of two hospitals and health clinics which are now enticing people
from many localities which are a considerable distance from these facilities. Projects such as these ha$ raised the esteem of the committee in the opinion of the local people and Mujahideen.
One of the major problems which is confronting the reconstruction work is the presence of considerable numbers of land mines. These mines have pose problems for the safety of the local people and the construction teams. Sadly many people have lost their lives or have suffered injuries as a result of the planted mines. The Reconstruction Committee in order to overcome the problems of mines has initiated a number of mine clearing programs in conjunction with local Mujahideen units. They have managed to clear many of the mines but the work will take many years to make the area totally safe mice again.
Editorial
| From page (4)
The decision taken by several countries to close their embassies on security grounds, in January 1989, passed a political message to the Kabul regime which was well understood. The resumption of ties will have negative implications. The Kabul regime will consider it a victory for itself and the world will think, wrongly, that the situation in Kabul has returned to normal and the regime has won its war for survival.
If the French government made a 'mistake' in its calculation when it decided to take its diplomats out of Kabul last January, at least it did not hurt the people who were struggling for their freedom. But correction of this ' mistake' will be harmful to the cause of Afghan people, which France has so far supported.
The decision of French government will hurt the feelings of millions of Afghan people who are actively opposing the Kabul regime.
It is surprising that this decision has been taken in a country where public awareness about Afghanistan is higher than in most Western countries, and where dozens of support committees were formed by ordinary citizens to help Afghans in their just struggle.
Jami'at advises the French government to reconsider its decision to reopen its embassy in Kabul, because it is not useful to die French people and definitely is harmful to the Afghans' noble cause.