RFRHflH HEMS UQL.Ui, HO, 2, J/15/19BB, PAGE 4
 The enemy answered the Mujahideens' attack by firing BM-21 at their positions, the Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
 11/12/19S7: In another rocket attack on military posts in the eastern part of Kabul city,
, Mujahideen destroyed the Qalai Hafizuilah post killing and wounding art unknown * number of enemy troops . They also captured sis soldiers and four AK-47s .
                                                 LAGHMAN PROVINCE
 8/12/19$?- Mujahideen of Torghar of J.I.A and other organizations) launched attacks against the military posts along the Kabul-Jalalabad Highway. They destroyed three tanks and the ammunition depot of Speena Tahaa. Fifty-three Russian and puppet regime troops were either killed or wounded. Some Mujahideen were wounded in the operation, the exact figure was not available.
 The Kabul-Jalalabad highway was closed to traffic for one day by the Mujahideen Ten trucks and some arms and ammunitions were seized Details were unavailable.
 In two other operations, Mujahideen destroyed two tanks and one truck and set one ammunition dump ablaze. More than 20 enemy troops were killed. Eight light weapons and a communication set were seized.
 In addition, Mujahideen reportedly shot down two enemy jets on Dec. 24.
                                                      KANDAHAR
                                                                  ■ '’sV
 19/12/1987 Mujahideen under the command of Mulla Naqib attacked the a unit of the puppet army belonging to the Kandahar Division. Three officers were killed and M soldiers were captured along with their weapons. Thirteen innocent localciviiians. who had been held as prisoners, were released.
 In the operation Mujahideen also captured the weapons depot of the mentioned unit and seized 2 heavy maehineguas, S3 of AK-47s, 3 tight machineguns. 2S.T.T pistols, 12 Makarov pistols and two boxes of hand grenades
 This same group of Mujahideen had on December 17 shot down one of the eight Russian jets which were bombing their center in Arghaadab, The plans,crashed in Khakraiz
 Mujahideen under the command of jalaluddin and Adel Nafi launched an attack on the ‘Security Beit'1 around Kandahar city on December 20 They'destroyed one post and seized the following:
 1- Machinegun............ 2
 2- RPG-7 rocket launcher.. 2
 3- Klashinkoy..............6
 4- TI Pistol.............. 3
 5- one communication set
 Twenty enemy troops, including four officers and $ Jawzijaai militiamen were captured and a number of others were killed or wounded Two Mujahideen were also wounded.
                           MEMORANDUM TO THE SOVIET EMBASSY
More than 2000 intellectuals and Trade Union leaders from all over Pakistan signed:® memorandum to protest continued bomb blasts in'Pakistan, The memorandum Was delivered by a representative of the signatories to an official of the Soviet Embassy in Islamabad.