 [ tM the mti or AtMionn ajuumb |
AFGH ANmews
             A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264. PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                     VOL. Ill, NO. 13, 1/7/1987.
                                          HOW CLOSE A SETTLEMENT IS
                     The Afghan nation vants pence. Var has caused great suffering to millions of Afghans.
 In this colonial var, unleashed by the Soviet ambitious leaders, our culture is facing « destruction, our religion is being harassed and the vhole Afghan nation is facing ■ genocide. More than half a million dead, 3 million external refugees, more than tvo million internal refugees and the destruction of 75% of all the villages, and tovns are clear indications of the Soviets brutality in the var. To end this tragedy Afghans desire ~ for peace, a peace vhich gives them their country and freedom to live the vay they IHce.
 The year 1987 started vith a lot of optimism. Soviets had announced the end of the vithdrecval of 8000 of their troops. Gorbachev had called Afghanistan a bleeding vound. A 'ceasefire* and "National Reconciliation" program ves announced in occupied Afghanistan. Later in Geneva the time table for the vithdravol of Soviet troops from Afghanistan vas reduced to 11 months by the puppets. Outside vorld had some reasons to be optimistic about a political settlement in Afghanistan.
 Afghan resistance vas vatching the situation closely. To Afghans there vas not any real change. Var vas escalating, people being Killed and refugees vara fleeing from the country as before. If there vere any change that vas the sophistication of the var in the political front.
 Based on understanding of the situation, the resistance had to do tvo things:
   1- To closely vetch the Soviets moves and if there vere any genuine step tovards a real settlement that should be reciprocated. Because the real aim vas liberation of Afghanistan.
   2- To guard the revolution against evil designs of the enemy. The resistance looked to the token vithdraval, ceasefire and national reconciliation as evil design to divide Afghans and deceive public opinion. This explains vhy the resistance rejected all the above ceremonial steps.
 By standing firm and united, the resistance foiled the enemys* evil designs. But the campaign has just started, there vill be more battles to vin.
 The veak point of the resistance is its political status. A resistance vith 7 years of experience in var. absolute popular support and control of the majority of Afghanistan’s land is in an undesirable political position. It is not recognized and its political establishments has the status of a refugee organisation. It does not have any part in the talks being held about Afghanistan. This is vhy the resistance can not initiate a major political campaign. In the absence of acomplete political plan from the resistance the Soviets vill be in a good political position.
 Soviets have intensified their activities inside NAM, and OIC, and have von some victories. Incursion of the Soviets in the Middle Fast vill have a negative effect on the position of the countries of the area on the Afghan issue. Knoving all this the Soviets are not seeking a solution, vhat they vant to consolidate the position of their puppets in the international arena, isolate Mujahideen and finally impose a solution in vhich their long term interests are protected. In other vords they are vorking tovards the end of conflict on their ovn terms. This is vhy ve do not believe the general
O F