AFGHANews Vol 7, No 7, April 1,1991, page @
Battlefields
Faryab Province
•	The Mujahideen of Jami'at Islami killed and wounded dozens of regime militiamen and seized a considerable number of arms and ammunition in five days of fighting against regime militia groups ih Qaysar District, Hindukush News Agency reported.
Following are details of operations launched under the command of Arbab Abdul Hafiz:
The Mujahideen killed 15 soldiers and one officer and captured 20 soldiers when they attacked a tribal battalion of the regime ih Asqalan area on March 23. The Mujahideen seized 35 Kalashnikov rifles, one mortar, one wireless set and some ammunition.The area came under control of the Mujahideen.
The Mujahideen liberated Hazar Qala area, killing 25 enemy soldiers and capturing 100 on March 25. Ten Mujahideen were injured in the operation. The Mujahideen seized the following arms and ammunition: Kalashnikov rifles 100 PK machineguns	4
RPG rocket launchers	3
DSChK gun (12.6mm)	2.
ZPU gun (14.6)	2
Grenade launcher	1
R-105 radio sets	,	2	.
Ammunition rounds 400,000 Ninety armed men surrendered to the Mujahideen in Chich Katoo area on March 26.
The report says a number of villages with inhabitants totalling 1000 families were also liberated. These village have been under1 control of the regime for the past 12 years.
•	Armed clashes between commu-
nist factions ova: a government transition in Faryab has caused a number of casualties in Maimana, the provincial capital of Faryab, Hindukish News Agency reported.	1
Armed groups of Groh-i-Kar and SAZA clashed with police and KHAD which belong to Parcham faction in
Maimana on March 3. As -a result of this fighting, 16 people from both sides were killed and many were injured.The two sides made use of tanks and other heavy and light weapons against each other. Night curfew was declared in the city, which was announced on the local radio.
A delegation wait to the area from Kabul to dad with the situation. It succeeded in bringing the fighting to a halt but tension remained high.
Hie tension between the two sides started last month when Hashim Paikar, the governor of Faryab and a member of Groh-i-Kar, was replaced by a new governor from Parcham faction.
Groh-i-Kar and SAZA are two communist factions active in the North. They compete with the Khalq and Parcham factions which run the Kabul government. The Soviets try to keep good relations with all these factions, and even supply militia groups belonging to SAZA and Groh-i-Kar directly with weapons and logistical supplies.
• The Mujahideen destroyed the headquarters of regime militiamen about 40 kilometers west of the Qaisar District, capturing a large number of militiamen along with several hundred light and heavy weapons on March 19.
Raza Khan Alekozai, the general commander of the militia forces in the area, escaped to Russia along with a number of militia families. Five Mujahideen were martyred and 18 were wounded in the operation.
On February 23 the regime's radio claimed that Raza Khan along with ten thousand Mujahideen - four thousand of whom were armed-had defected from Jami'at Islami to the regime. JIA rejected the allegation.
Jawzjan Province
Kabul regime militias in Sar-i-Pul District clashed with KHAD and police .on February 21, Hindukush News Agency reported.
As a result of the clash, two persons were killed and four were injured. The
cause of the clash was not known. Tension between different factions of the regime has increased the number of militias defecting to the Mujahideen. In die past two weeks 20 armed militiamen have defected to the Mujahideen.
Herat Province
•	The Mujahideen of Jami’at destroyed one tank and killed 20 militiamen in Kushk-i-Ishaq area of Enjeel District in clashes which. continued from March 9 to 12. Meanwhile, the Mujahideen attacked militia forces of the regime in Sayedabad area of Pushtoon Zarghoon District. No details weregiven.
•	Ten enemy soldiers were killed on March 10 when Mujahideen attacked die security posts protecting the city of Herat in Murghiz area. One Mujahid was killed and one was injured.
•	The Mujahideen killed or wounded 22 enemy soldiers and destroyed one tank in Udran area on March 14 .
•	Two soldiers were killed and four soldiers surrendered when die Mujahideen ambushed than on Herat-Torghondi road on March 12. The Mujahideen seized four guns.
•	The Mujahideen captured one truck and one ZPU-2 (14.6 mm ma-chinegun) near Pul-i-Sabzwar, west of Herat airport, on March 14. The enemy lost three men in the attack.
•	On March 13, 50 militiamen surrendered to the Mujahideen in Karokh District, bringing 50 guns with them.
•	The Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the Kabul regime garrison in die border town of Torghpndi on March 15, setting on fire an ammunition dump which burned for 24 hours. According to preliminary reports, more than 100 enemy troop were eitha killed or wounded in die incident.
The Mujahideen used ground-to-ground rockets against the enemy base on the Soviet border. Torghondi is a dry port through which the Kabul regime brings both military and nonmilitary supplies for its garrisons in southwestern Afghanistan.
. • Ten enemy militiamen were killed and 12 were injured when a bomb planted by the Mujahideen in Karta district, inside the city of Herat, exploded onMarchl7.
•	The Kabul regime reported that the Mujahideen fired mote than 80 rockets into government positions in Herat city, killing five people and wounding 30 on March 12.
AFGHANews has learned from reliable sources that the UN is planning to close its office in Herat city due to intensification of war in the city.