Vol 6, No 2	January	15,	1990
Mujahideen and refugees condemn Soviet Union’s invasion of Afghanistan
- ----------- --------
North facing famine threat
The Mujahideen commanders in the North and West of Afghanistan have reported food shortages in their areas and have appealed for international support.
In a letter to his representative in Peshawar, Commander Aryanpoor has said that the people of Badakhshan are facing shortages of food and the prices of food commodities have reached beyond the buying ability of die common man.
Aryanpoor said that due to the lack of seasonal rainfall and harsh coldness, the harvest of irrigated and "Lalm” farms (farms located in hilly areas which are naturally irrigated) has been very poor. He added that the late snow fall of last year destroyed the fruit harvest in the area which compounded the severe food shortage. This has led to major increases in food prices. Aryanpoor said the situation has caused worry among the people making them concerned about their future.
He has asked the international relief organizations to help the needy people in his area.
In a similar letter. Commander Ismael Khan, has reported food shortages and high prices of essential commodities in Herat. Ismael Khan expressed concern about the exploitation of the situation by the Communist regime of Kabul. The Kabul regime has intensified the sending of arms, money and food to buy the support of the people in Herat and weaken the resistance.
He has reported that the regime has recently given 80 artillery pieces, 100 armored cars, 300 14.6 mm machine guns and more than 10,000 light weapons to the militias in the province, in addition to great amounts of food and large sums of money.
Ismael Khan also complained about shortages of warm clothes and has reported fresh displacement of people from Pushtoon Zarghoon district The displaced people are in need of immediate assistance.
Huge meetings were held through out Pakistan and some world cities to remember the tenth anniversary of the Russian invasion into Afghanistan which dates from the 27 December 1979 and lasted until the 15 February, 1989. A common theme in each meeting was universal condemnation of the illegality of the Russian invasion and the terrible sufferings being endured by the Afghani people.
Leaders of the AIG held meeting in the following refugee camps:
1)	Naser Bagh Camp -speech by President Sebghatullah MujaddidL
2)	Jalozai Camp -speech by Prime Minister Professor Sayyaf.
3)	Haripur Camp -speech by Minister of Reconstruction Professor Rabbani.
4)	Bajawor Camp -speech by Minister of Interior Mawalawi Khalis.
5)	Sawabi Camp -speech by Minister of Defense Mawalawi Muhammadi.
President Mujaddidi in his speech reiterated the importance of all Afghans to put aside their internal differences and rally behind the AIG so that an Islamic government can quickly be installed to govern Afghanistan.
The AIG released a text outlining nine points to mark their policy direction. In summary these points are:
1)	Russia must pay war reparations.
2)	Jehad will continue until an Islamic government is installed.
3)	Greater international pressure must be brought onto Russia to refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan.
4)	All governments should recognize the AIG.
5)	The People of Afghanistan are
solely responsible for determining their own future
6)	Present members of the communist regime will not be represented in any future Islamic government
7)	A general amnesty is passed onto all innocent officers and officials of the Kabul regime if they give themselves up to the AIG.
8)	International donations are urgently required.
9)	Military actions by the Mujahideen need to be increased.
A number of rallies and speeches independent of the AIG were also held at different localities to mark the anniversary. The most significant of these meetings was held at Hayatabad in Peshawar where Gulbuddin Hekmatyar the leader of Hezb-i-Islami spoke to a large gathering of refugees. During his speech he assailed both Russia and America, who he said were continuing to muddle in the internal affairs of Afghanistan.
A group of women refugees held a rally in Rawalpindi close to Islamabad, the Capital of Pakistan.
The Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mrs. Benazir Bhutto, paid rich tribute to the people of Afghanistan in a specially prepared statement to mark the anniversary. She stressed that Pakistan took "great pride in saluting the Afghani people for setting an example of Islamic valor and faith that will abide and inspire freedom loving peoples all over the world."
In Afghanistan the anniversary was celebrated by the Mujahideen attacking different military targets in various parts of the country.
The most significant attack involved a major bombardment of military installations in Kabul where Mujahideen forces fired fifty rockets. Other offensive actions were operations in Mazar and Khost