AFGHANews Vol 8, No 3, February 1,1992, page O
Abu Panah	A
On November 26,1 left Peshawar for Farah Province to survey the work of some relief organizations based in Peshawar. In order to pass through Iran, I obtained visa from the Iranian consulate in Peshawar. Afghans refugees living in Pakistan who want to visit Iran are required to get visa from Iranian consulates in Peshawar and Quetta. Those who fail to do so will be jailed and then expelled.
In Taftan border post, I presented myself to the border authorities of Iran and they sent me to a camp set up for Afghans on die border. I and hundred of other Afghans who had entered Iran by the permission of Iranian consulates in Peshawar and Quetta spent nine long days in the fortress-type camp which was guarded by security men of the Islamic Republic.
In addition to several hundred visa-holders Afghans, few thousand refugees from Hazarajat, central part of Afghanistan, were also kept there. These people, most of than women and children, had escaped the food shortage in their villages and were trying to take refuge in Iran.
Living conditions in the camp were appalling. The inhospitable camp authorities provided food for the refugee families which was not enough to keep them full. Others had to buy their food from die canteen of the camp at prices five times higher than outside the camp.
The weather was very cold. The detained Afghans had to sleep on bare floor of crowded tents and concrete rooms with no blankets to keep them warm. Many people had become sick due to cold weather.
The authorities of the camp behaved very badly towards the refugees and even insulted them. I begged two religious scholars from among the refugees of Hazarajat to go to the officer in charge of the camp and ask him about the reason for our detention despite having valid visas. They were kind enough t° go and speak on our behalf. The camp officer refused to talk to them and ordered them to get out of his office. It was very disappointing to the two scholars who expected fair treatment from the authorities of the Islamic Republic.
One morning, residence of the camp were ordered through a loudspeaker to clean the camp. After the cleanup operation, they were told to que in front of the health clinic1 of the camp. A UN team visited the camp. They took pictures and filmed people being treated by the Iranian doctors. Everything seemed fine. A young Afghan from Herat drew the attention of the UN team to the plight of stranded Afghans in the camp. He told them that he and hundreds of other Afghans were kept there for more than a week despite holding visas. He complained about die high price of food in die camp and said that all of his money was spent during detention. The UN officers ibid him they would talk to the Iranian authorities about the problems of Afghan visitors. When the UN team had left, die camp officers put the poor man from Herat into a
car and drove him away. God knows what happened to him. Iranian officers seemed very angry with him because he had embarrassed them in front of the UN team. .
After nine tiring days, I was taken to Zahidan and was issued with a special pass allowing me to go to Bairjand, Khurasan Province. After spending a few days in Shamsabad refugee camp, I crossed the border to Farah Province.1 visited Shindand, Anardara, Qala-i-Kah and Lash-o-Juwain districts during this trip.
The situation in Shindand seemed good. Commander Abdul Aziz leads the Mujahideen from Jami'at in that district. He is an ex-army officer from Shindand District having close ties with Commander Ismail Khan. Colonel Aziz has also good relations with NIFA, led by Sayyed Ahmad Gailani. When I was in Shindand, two militia commanders of the Kabul regime fought each other. The soturi of their artillery reached the Mujahideen base. Scores of militiamen wen killed or wounded in these clashes. Shindand town and air base are controlled by the regime while the rest of the district is controlled by the Mujahideen. The road connecting the base to Herat is occasionally blocked by the Mujahideen.
During one week stay in Shindand, I saw no jet fighter taking off or landing in the base. That might be due to fuel shortage.
I saw two helicopters, one day , flying on die base.
Before I reached Shindand two Mujahideen commanders were martyred in an attack inside the air base. One of them was Commander Abdul Fatah who had blown several regime jets in 1985 when he served as a soldier in the base. The other was Lieutenant Jamaluddin, an air force officer who still served in Shindand base. They had planned blowing up all the regime jets in die base. Jamahiddin had got die pass word into the base. After approval of the plan by Commander Abdul Aziz, die two men began their mission. Wearing night visions, they readied close 10 the planes. In die tense situation, one of the mines that they wanted to plant exploded prematurely and martyred them both. The people talked about them and'considered . their martyrdom a great loss to die Mujahideen.
A hospital, run by die Mujahideen, treated patients, including those living under control of die Kabul regime. The hospital faced shortages of medicine due to suspension of aid by relief organization in protest to incidents of violence against aid workers inside Afghanistan. Now that die ban is lifted, the hospital in Shindand will have medicine to treat the people. The hospital is run by competent doctors, some of whom graduates of Faculty of Medicine of Kabul University. I saw one school and one Madrasa (a religious school) run by Commander Abdul Aziz.
Food and fuel were available in die market. Wheat was available at 1,600 Afghani per Ser (seven kilograms) and cooking.oil 8,000 Afs per Ser. Lamb and beef were sold 1,600 and 1200 Afs per kil-
ogram respectively. Petrol was sold 1,700 Afs. per gallon. Before winter each gallon of petrol was sold 800 Afs. Food and fuel, smuggled from Iran, reaches both die Mujahideen-controlled areas and the regime
Regime officers in Shindand were trying to make money by all means. They released two Mujahideen prisoners for 2.4 million Afs. They were part of 12 Mujahideen of Jami'at captured in an ambush some months ago.
A vaccination center worked in Anardara District under protection of Mawlawi Faqii Ahmad of Hezb Islami (Khalis). He was accused of selling some Stinger missiles to Iran during Iran-fraq war. He claimed, however, that Iran had confiscated the missiles by force.
Faqir Ahmad was fighting a Jami'at commander last year, but they were living in peace now. Their dispute which was of tribal nature was solved by mediation of local elders,
Anardara is a trading center for many districts of Farah. Food and fuel are brought from Iran to the town . Aims and ammunition were freely sold in the market..
Iran allows limited amount of food to pass to major commanders but most of the food and fuel is brought through illegal ways. If intercepted by Iranian guards, die goods and vehicles will be confiscated. Sometime ago, Uranian authorities auctioned about 70 pick up cars and other vehicle confiscated from Afghan involved in cross-border trade. They were sold back to them.
A new development in the area was formation of a new base by Rasool Akhundzada on the border with ban. It was believed that die base was used to smuggle ' opium. The local Mujahideen, especially Commander Aziz, resented the establishment of the base but could do little to stop it because it could provoke tribal dashes.
General Hamza who fled to Pakistan with Shah Nawaz Tania, after an abortive coup against Najft\ has established himself in Hezb Islami base in Lash-o-Juwain District He has made association with a group of Maoists who have moved from Nimroz to Helmand after developing problems with Ulemas there. The Maoist, known as Sholaies, form a force of 500 armed mm. Most of them shave their beard . and wear scarf around their heads. They came from different parts of Afghanistan. The Maoists have been lately receiving , arms and financial assistance, from Prof. Mujaddidi’s organization. They were introduced to this party by Sulaiman Mujaddidi, a respected figure in Farah, who now admits that he accepted them in the party without knowing enough about them. The Maoists also receive humanitarian aid from relief organizations based in Quetta.
In Lash-o-Juwain, I met Commander Sharif of Jami’at a. Baluch; who showed great interest :in die work of Commander Masood. He said the Mujahideen in die area lacked proper organization and training to defeat die regime forces.