---------RFGHflHcws Uot 4, Ho 7, Rori! 1,1986, PS6E 5
News blackout follows Geneva agreement
  A tier's black-out will fallow a Geneva agreement between Pakistan and the puppet regime. The world will not know about what will happen to the Resistance and the refugees returning Afghanistan. The only news reaching the world will be propaganda presented by the Soviets.
  The present form of reporting the war will be finished. There ■will not be Resistance offices to help the reporters, nor refugees to speak about atroci ties end no officer of the Resistance to arrange trips for a fev dedicated journalists to report the war.
  Pakistan will be unwilling to provide assistance for the journalists to sneak into Afghanistan. It could be
  ABDUL Samad, known as Qsri Rahmactullah, was born in 1953 in a small village called "Esher. Toap“ in Khanabad district of Kundus province.
  Qari belongs to a religious family. His father was a poor- man who could barely meet family's needs.
  Qari was the eldest son of the family. He went to primary school in the Char Toot of Khanabad district and then joined the Takharisten religious school
interpreted as hostile act against the Soviets and their puppets.
  ¥ho will tell the world about what is happening? Vestern embassies may claim, to do part of the job by sending diplomatic reports. ¥ill they teil the truth after the agreement they have supported has failed to bring peace? Moreover, even if there are good intentions, there will not be free access to the truth.
  They mil have to rely on rumors and drat? conclusions from the communist publications and count the incoming and out-going convoys and artillery shells.
  Some journalists mil make full use of the opportunity to fly
(madrasa).
  "He was my good son helping me at home and not creating problems for his sister and brothers", said his mother living not? in Peshawar.
  Qai'i was still a student when communists took power aaid the Soviets invaded. He left the madrasa and came to Peshawar. After awhile he was sent to Afghanistan by the jami’at Islami party.
 First he accompanied late commander
Aeroflot or Air India and be given a guided tour by the Communists. There 'will not be such a thing as balanced and objective reporting.
  A Geneva accord will not bring peace to the country but the immediate effect would be to deprive the Afghans of the possibility of telling the truth to the rest of the world.
  Fho will inform the world about massacres, the use of forbidden weapons, torture in prison, participation of Soviet combat troops against the. strongholds of the Resistance, Sovietisation measures, famine, epidemics and the thousand other things which make news?
  Zabihuliah of Masar to Fanjshir. “That was indeed my first step in the practical life of Jehad. Those days the mountains were a kind of learning center for everyone", said Qari while visiting Peshawar.
   Qari is the chief j administrator of Jami'at S in Kudus.
   Later, he established j his base in the t mountains of Dara Batloo | ofAHAbad.
\ Qari is a part of the Council of the North. He is an honest and a commander who is respected by the people he works with.
Who ts who of Mujahideen
  Qari Rahmatullah