RFGH*?H«»s Ud{ 4, fc Bpr H hi^US., PfiSE 3
AFGHANews
                                                                                                                                             i
l
New refugees tell of soviet
PO Box 264. Peshwar-Pakistan Tel: 41381
massacres
  ED I TOR IA L~
 L———-    . ... —..               , . ._—
      Proper plans insure victory
     VICTORY of the Resistance over the Communist regime is inevitable, but it will come through well-planned political and military work.
    If Genets agreement is signed., the Soviets will start to withdraw their forces within nine months. This •will leave the regime in Kabul and the resistance in the countryside. Since the Mujahideen are not ready to share power with the communists, the war for control of Kabul will continue.
    The regime will have the suppor t of Soviet troops in the first nine months ,but later it will have to struggle for its survival against the resistance forces.
     How long can the communist regime in Kabul survive without the support of the Red Army? Some people think a few days or months. The communists say that they will face no problems once the aid to the Resistance is cut.
     The communist regime has enough supplies of weapons and ammunition and can get more from the Soviets. The Red Army has built a lot of military installations which will be used by the puppets.
    The size of the puppet army has increased but the army is demoralised, the Communists count on the KGB-trained secret police and some other para-miiitary units but their numbers are limited.
    All the above is not enough for the survival of the regime. The missing factor is the lack of popular support for the regime. The regime is severe of this short-coming and tries to improve the situation with a so-called national reconciliation program and by abandoning communist programs but the mistrust between the people and the regime is so wide that bridging the gap is impossible.
    The regime is also divided between rival factions. Soviet attempts to unite them have failed so far. This division will hasten its fall in the event of a serious campaign by the Resistance.
      To destroy the regime the Resistance needs a detailed program of work. This program must be worked out from the realities of the post-Geneva situation. The program must be both military and political because the Resistance is facing a military and political problem. Elimination of the regime is a military job but to keep popular support on the Resistance side is a political task. (See next page)
  AN old man from Kundus says that Russians heavily bombed his village in Cherdara district about 40 days ego end killed or -wounded a large number of civilians. He and his family trekked 40 days to reach Pakistan.
  Jumauddin, 60, said that the Soviet attack was launched in retaliation for the shooting down of a Russian plane by Mujahideen near Kundus Airport.
  Juma is a resident of the village of Angoor Bagh in Chardara district, situated close to the Kundus Airport.
  He said " I lost three of my relatives in a Russian massacre few years ago. Two of my young sons fled to Iran after they deserted from the puppet army."
  Juma and his family ere living in Peshawar in a tent pitched beside the road. The old man complains of lack ox' food and proper clothes. He said to our reporter that he has riot fc-eeti helped by eny party or relief organisation .
   Chardara has been a witness of Soviets massacre of 400 people during a military operation. Since the area is flat and very close to the Soviet base , it is difficult for the civilians to retreat to the safe areas in case of a strong attack .. As a result of these massacres a large number of the residents of this district have become refugees in Pakistan.
