HFGHRN t€MO VCL.Ill, HQ.1, 1/1/1967 PflOC 6
 A. In my view, since they are criminals and treacherers. they can never participate in the future Afghan government. I believe they should be put on trial rather than taking part in determining the Afghan People s destiny
 Q. How do you see the future of Afghanistan especially in regard to women?
 A. In accordance with the Islamic Sharia, the women will enjoy the Islamic rights and privileges granted to them. When the Islamic government is formed, you will find out the details of how the Islamic sharia treats women.
 Q. Will they receive education?
 A. Why notl
 0 Will there be an election in Afghanistan?
 A. After a transitional stage, there will be elections in Afghanistan.
 Q. Najib wants to say that the conditions of the Muslims have improved in Afghanistan. He paints the mosques and pays a salary to Mullahs.
 A. When the Russians and Russian agents face a defeat vis-a-vis the decisive determination of the people, they put on such false masks. But this is only temporary. If they feel that the critical stage has passed, they will reveal their Satanic faces again.
                              THE LOSS OF TWO IMPORTANT PEOPLE
 Engineer Mohammad Gul and Sayed Burhanuddin were martyred one after the other in two different incidents.
 Eng. Mohammad Gul. a graduate of the faculty of Science of Kabul University and chief administrator of jami'at organization in Perwan province was assassinated by KHAD agents along with four of his companions. He was traveling by Jeep at the mouth of the Ghorband valley when KHAD agent opened fire and killed him on 1/12/1986 He was working for Masood and had proved to be a capable activist and organizer. His martyrdom shocked his friends and Jami'at members and leaden and can be counted as a big loss.
 On a separate incident, Sayed Burhanuddin, the deputy head of jami'at Office in Paris was killed in Nahrin on 11/11/1986 . Burhanuddin who came from a poor family was given a scholarship to study french language and literature. When the country was invaded he joined the resistance. He made two trips to Afghanistan to bring photo and film. During the second mission he was martyred. He is remembered by all those who have met him even once. His good conduct in life, love for Islam and his simple way of life, has earned him a large number of friends.
                               THE LAST WORD OF MARTYRS
According to Islamic principles a person who dies to defend his faith is a martyr. A martyr will be forgiven from all sin, except what he owes to other people.