——--------------------- -AFGHANews	Vol	5,	No	IS, August 1,1989, page ©
Eyewitness account of Ferkhar tragedy	By: Craig Weintraub
Ferkhar Massacre of Jami'at commanders gives a sad air to Eid celebrations
where the commander initiated emer-
July 16, FoUiar, Afghanistan. The nsnal festive atmosphere of Eid Qurban -Feast of tire Sacrifice, had a partiadady solemn and serious ate at it
iqg r^mdnrtrdl wm Inw nfftAfay
finned prayers, many of dieir thoughts were diverted distorting new details ofwhat operas to be a highly planned ambush conducted by Hezh-i-Islami (Hekmatyar) Mujahideen of a Jami'at convoy on July 9 and 10.
At least IS Jam?at Mujahideen including major pony commanders and officials ofTakhar hare been confirmed tilled in an ambush and suhseqaag executions initialed by Hezb-i-Islami (Hekmatyar) Mujahidea) in fee Dadt4> Route area of Takhm province, 30 Km south of Taliqan.
The victims of the ambush woe major Jamf at commanders and officials from Kuduz, Bagblai, aidTathar prov-incss who were returning home after attending a 6-day seminar and training session directed by theleader of JamEat forces in the North, Ahmad Shah Masood. The focus of the seminar had been to define new strategy and tactics for the Mujahideen in their straggle against die Kabul regime.
Tte returning cornmaiders and par-ty officials were travelling on the road between Feriter andTaUqan on July 9 organized loosely into throe convoys. The first convoy consisted of two cars, one with Khanahad commander Dr. Shams, die other with Tathar commander Mullah Wadood. At 3:00 pm the unsuspecting Jami'at Mujahideen were fired upon with heavy machine guns and Klashnibovs from hidden positions in fie Ferkhar gorge, which borders a portion of the 45 Km suetch of road between Ferkhar and Taliqan.
Jami'at commander Engineer Yaqonb was in Midlah Wadoorfs car as it passed through the gorge several days ago. He was shot throe tunes in the arm and is only able to relate die tale because he managed to escape fiom his captivity two days ago. He says that his car was following behind Dr. Shams in the gorge when suddenly theyy encountered a barrage of gunfire which killed one of them, and left two
nriiHV jnrhvting himadfjpjnr^,
According to Engineer Yaqoub the driver stepped the car and Mullah Wadood was trying to escape up the
hill when he was shot dead. The rest of the Jantiht Mujahideen in both slopped cars were surrounded by Hezb-i-Islami (Hekmatyar) Mujahideen and taken across dm other side ofthe river where
They wailed there until five to six cars of the second convoy arrived. These cars were stepped in a similar fashion, money and valuables confiscated, and the new hostages were told to join the other captives on die other side of the river. There were now approximately 50 to 60 Jami'at Mujahideen being held. They were taken to the small village of Dahane Kushakdan where they wailed till dusk when die final convoy of Jami'at transports, one of diem with Kuduz commander Arif Khan, passed through the gage.
Mohammad Alter, a Jami'at commander, was riding in the last car of this convoy as it passed through the gorge at 6:30 pm. "Suddenly we heard tremendous gunfire over head" he recalls, "and we woe forced to stop. Oscar was soon surrounded by 25 men, as were the rest of the cars in the convoy. We were told to pass our weapons out through the windows and to get .out. When we got out of our cars they confiscated our money, watches, coats and even our shoes. Some of our men were hit by die Hezbi Mujahideen with die ends of Kalashnikovs."
A civilian truck then came up the road temporarily distracting die captors, allowing Mohammad Akhar to slip undetected to the back of the track where he acted as though he was a civilian coming on the track. He was able to escape on die truck when it was ordered onwanL
Ghazi, a Jami'at heavy artillery man, was also in this convoy. He says after getting out of the car they were ordered by Hezb commander, Eshan-i-Sayyed Muza, to cross the river where he was standing. Arif Khan, commander of Kuduz, refused to follow these instructions despite being ordered to do so throe times. Finally Eshan gave permission for throe carloads of Arif Khan's men to be released.
Shortly after being released, they again came undo’ heavy gunfire in which one car was overturned, killing one man and injuring two others. Eventually that night the two transports rtf Arif Khan arrived in Taliqan
gency procedures and established radio contact with Ahmad Shah Masood.
Meanwhile at 9:00 that evening, Hezb commander Eshan Muza requested that die 70 to 80 hostages identify themselves as "commanders" or "personnel". After compiling die two lists, die prisoners were searchod thoroughly, Mawlavi Ezatullah and P&yenda were then handcuffed in front of the group, all led down to the roadside at which time shots were heard and the two executed. ■
The rest of the Jami'at Mujahideen were then taken to the village of Naw Khoja, higher in the gorge, where they were separated into two rooms-one with commanders, the other with personnel. Ihe Jami'at Mujahideen asked their captors why they were being held as an oral agreement had been made one month earlier, and witnessed by the four groups of Hezb-i-Islanii (Khalis), Hezb-i-Islanri (Hekmatyar), Jamfat and HarakaL The oral agreement guaranteed freedom of passage for these Mujahideen groups. The Hezbi captors told their hostages that "promises had been broken and that the oral agreement could no longer be honored."
The following morning of July 10 in Taliqan, a delegation of four Mawlavis and elders from tire city were told by Arif Khan to go to the gorge and negotiate with Sayyed Jamal, die major Hezb (Hekmatyar) commander in the area, for the release of the captives. The number of Hezbi Mujahideen operating in the Taliqan gorge under Jamal are approximately numbered at 400 men.
Upon arrival at the gorge the delegation was informed by Jamal that no further action was planned and were promised that the hostages would be released shortly thereafter. Ihe Mawlavis and elders returned to Taliqan by 11:00 am and were allowed to cany back the bodies of the four deads. An eyewitness in Taliqan at the time of delegation return reported that tensions were high in the city as aimed Hezb and Jami'at Mujahideen groups patrolled the streets and rumors of the strike circulated among civilians doing their last minute Eid shopping.
According to captive Engineer Yaqoub, the hostages were held until
Turn to page (7 )