---------- —	AFGHANews	Vol	8,	Nos	21	&	22,
Government foils Hezb's plan to attack Bagram
Hezb Islami has gathered its forces near Bagram to attack the air base, which is controlled by the government.
Bagram, 50 kilometers north of Kabul, is Afghanistan’s key air base. It fell to the Mujahideen few days before the fall of Kabul. Its 400 officers defected to Commander Masood.
Talking to reporters, Bismillah Khan, the base commander, said Hezb had brought extra forces to the area to attack the base. He said after his defeats in Kabul, Herat and Shindand, Hikmatyar wanted to take revenge. He said the government was fully prepared to defend the base. In addition to units of the 40th Division, 2000 troops of Shura-i-Nizar are deployed around Bagram to defend the base.
The troubles in the area started one month ago when some commanders loyal to Hezb revolted against Farid, the Hezb commander in Kohistan, The rebels, headed by commander Qamardin, cut the road linking Kohistan with Sarobi. Hikmatyar wanted to send reinforcements to the area from Sarobi. Units of Lashkar-i-Esar (i military formation of Hezb) and a column of armored vehicles and tanks were assigned to the job.
A commander of Harakat (Mohammadi) in Tagao refused to let the reinforcements pass through his area. The Hezb tanks could not pass, but its soldiers reached Kohistan by slipping past Tagao with the help of local Hezb people.
Hezb launched several attacks to open the road between Kohistan and Sarobi, but failed. Government artillery and air forces struck Hezb units whenever they gathered to attack.
Haji Deen Mohammad, the deputy prime minister, visited the area to defuse the tension but his mediation efforts were disrupted when Hezb kidnapped Mawlawi Mansoor, forcing him and the Defense Minister to return to Kabul.
Hezb's deployment of outsiders to fight in Kohistan has provoked rcsent-men among the local people. It reminds them of the events of 40 years ago when the late Nadir Khan - ex-King Zaher's father -twice marched tribal lashkars from Paktia to crush the local opposition against his government. The tribesmen looted the area, and the bitter taste of the pillage of Kohistan lives on in the tales told to children by their elders during long winter nights.
Qazi Waqad rejoins Hezb of Hikmatyar
Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad rejoined Hezb Islami on October 24. He was the deputy leader of Hezb some years ago, but left the party due to differences with Hikmatyar. t
Qazi Amin is from Surkh Rud District of Ningarhar Province. He is a graduate of the Faculty of Islamic Law of Kabul University.
Qazi Amin migrated to Pakistan in 1975 because of opposition to the President Daud’s government. When
r------------------------------1
iGoverners' son busted ■
Mohammad Zahid, son of the * * Governor of Ningarhar, Haji Abdul * *Qadeer, has been arrested by the* I Peshawar Police for injuring a * I Pakistani during a-street fight in i I Peshawar, The News reported. I I The young Afghan was appro-1 I bended by the Gulbahar _ Police I I Station for injuring Yasin, resident I I of Bara, Khyber Agency.	I
I Haji Qadeer belonging to Hezb | | Islami (Khalis group).	|
I___________________________   I
the Islamic movement divided, he joined Hezb Islami and was appointed the deputy of that party. Some years later, he left Hezb on policy dispute and established his own faction, Daya-i-Ittihad Islami.
Although the government of Pakistan did not recognize his party, he received funds and weapons because of his good relations with General Fazle Haq, the then governor of NWFP.
Qazi also established close ties with the Islamic Republic of Iran. He participated in seminars and conferences on Afghanistan in Iran and received assistance from that country.
Hikmatyar wanted him to join Hezb after his first abortive attack on Kabul in the Spring. Qazi Waqad is famous for his ethnic inclinations and this might account for his rejoining Hezb. His faction is small and his rejoining Hezb has mostly symbolic importance.
November 15, 1992, page @
Qazi reflected Jamaat's chief
Qazi Hussain Ahmad, the ' leader of Jamaat Islami Pakistan, has been reelected as the Amir (leader) of that party for five more years.
Qazi, a Pushtoon from NWFP, has close ties with Hikmatyar. He confronted opposition by some prominent members of Jamaat due to his support ‘for Saddam Hussain during the Gulf war and helping Hikmatyar to wage war against the Islamic State of Afghanistan. His opponents accuse him of abandoning the policies of the founder of Jamaat Islami, Mawlana Maududi.
Qazi Hussain Ahmad's re-appointment pleased Hikmatyar. He sent him a congratulatory ' message over his election for the second five-year term.
After his re-appointment, Qazi praised Hikmatyar as "a peace-lover" and asked other Mujahideen leaders to cooperate with him.
i
Qazi sent volunteers to fight for Hezb against the Islamic government during the two attacks of Hezb on Kabul. Some of his volunteers were killed or , wounded in fighting.
Criticizing Qazi's policy towards Afghanistan, President Rabbani during an official visit to Pakistan asked him to stop interference in internal affairsof Afghanistan.
Nawaz Shatifs government has criticized Qazi Hussain Ahmad for his support to Hikmatyar. In a letter to Qazi, Siddique Kanju, the state minister for foreign affairs of Pakistan, asked him to refrain from interfering in affairs of Afghanistan.
Although Qazi's interference in Afghanistan's affairs is undeniable, accusing him alone for provision of aid to Hikmatyar would be unfair. Hikmayar has many friends in the army of Pakistan. Arms and other forms of aid could not have reached Hikmatyar without support of some government agencies.