AFGHAN.NEWS
 No. ri          23-7-85             p-38
                                       SA^NG_HIGrHWAY
 Although no detailed news has arrived from Salang yet, a. short note from the area reports heavy fighting at the Salang highway to the Southern part of the tunnel.
 The report says that the highway was closed for about a week and Mujahideen were able to destroy a considerable number of different kinds of vehicles, kill many enemy soldiers ana capture a good number of arms and ammunition.
 The date of. the operation is reported to be the. last week of June and first week of July.
                                   kabul_1J®gdalik_front)
 19-6-85
 Commander Anwar of Jegdalik has reported that in a Russian post near Sroobi, 3 non-Russian Soviet soldiers (mostly Tajiks) have revolted and killed.more than 20 Russians. 'While they were on their way, to escape to join Mujahideen of Jegdalik, they were recaptured by the Russians in a village called Dari Sar of Sroobi district.
 11;7=85
 A Mujahideen group of Jegdalik .attacked a government base called Soori Teega at.Tahgi Abrishumi.
 According to the report Mujahideen passed three security posts during the night to reach the base. The mentioned base although sitr uated amongst four security posts, Mujahideen were able to use an effective tactic to attack the main Russian base and inflict heavy losses on them. More than 20 Russians and soldiers of the puppet government wete killed or injured.
 14-7-85
 Mujahideen reportedly destroyed another post near Saroobi district office. The operation resulted in the killing of many puppet government soldiers. Twenty one pieces of heavy and light weapons were captured.                  LOGAR PROVINCE
 29-6-85
 A letter from Commander Fazlullah of Logar reports that Mujahideen
 ...                .         -       s         ■      - •
 have achieved some effective organizational and social work from the begining of 1985 up to now. He talks about military , judicial, educational and medical activities which show that despite enemy pressure and the Mujahideen's anti-Soviet involvement, they have been able to work among civilians nfuch more than in previous years. For examplo, a mobile medical team from Jamiat has been able to treat about 36 injured Mujahid and visit hundreds of civilians.-