Vol 7, No 24	December	15,1991
Islamabad seminar discusses aid to Afghansistan
Kristian Berg
Education has been neglected in Afghan relief projects, concluded participants in a three-day seminar on the future of aid to Afghanistan, arranged by the Norwegian Afghanistan Committee in Islamabad from 4-7 Dec.
The seminar had the title "From Aid during Times of War to Aid for Reconstruction and Development". It was attended by people engaged in assistance to Afghanistan, the majority being Afghans. Altogether 130 people attended die seminar. The AIG was also represented by the minister of finance, Hedayat Amin Arsala, and the minister of education, Sardar Roshan.
The ability to diversify between positive and negative aid was a major subject of Mr. Arsala's speach, reminding about the Afghan experience leading upto the war. He further elaborated that the Afghans will need aid, bearing in mind that there is a need to build institutions for dealing with this from the Afghan side.
In discussions on the topic "Aid and independence: what aid, on whose terms?'', the continuing lack of coordinated planning was emphasized. The message clearly addressed NGOs and the UN. Improved local knowledge and develping the ability to work closer with the local population was stressed,
Mr. Roshan disclosed that the Ministry of Education is going through a major reorganization, and that it will be headed by a council with a broader representation from parties. A major aim will be a standardised curriculum.
The seminar recognized the women's contribution in Jehad. It summed up that the women's full participation would.be crucial to the Afghan reconstruction process.
Contributions and findings from the seminar will be published in the middle of February.
Leaders agree on formula for interim goverment
The Mujahideen leaders announced a formula for creation of an Islamic interim government on December 3.
Most of the parties have agreed to form a ten-member council of the party leaders. The members this council will not be able to take part in the Islamic interim government.
They have also agreed to form a 100-member council representing all major groups, including 'good Muslims' from Kabul. An interim government will be formed to supervise elections within one year. All powers of the Kabul regime will be transferred to this government. The council of leaders will be dissolved after the elected national assembly is formed.
Mawlawi Khalis has opposed this plan and Hezb Wahdat, based in Tehran, is studying it.
The Mujahideen leaders have held extensive negotiations with the leaders of Pakistan, including President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. Both leaders have welcomed the result of the Moscow talks.
While Hikmatyar has softened its position on Moscow talks* Prof. Sayyaf and Younus Khalis are still opposed to theagreement reached. Hikmatyar has indicated that his party might take part in the talks between the Mujahidedfr-and a Soviet delegation to be held in Islamabad on December 21.
The Mujahideen and Soviets will discuss implementation of the Moscow. agreement Soviet delegation in Islamabad talks will be led by Alexander Rostkoi, the vice president of the Russian Federation who played a key role in the Moscow talks. Radio Moscow reported that Rostkoi will also visit Tehran and Kabul.
The Mujahideen are expected to release a number of Soviet POWs before the end of the current year. The two Soviet soldiers, captured in Herat about
one month ago, will be included in this group.
Soviet Ambassador to Pakistan met with a number of Mujahideen leader, including Prof. Rabbani and Hikmatyar, after the Mujahideen delegation returned from Moscow.
The US Special Envoy to the Afghan Resistance Peter Tom son also visited Pakistan in the first week of December. He held talks with some Mujahideen leaders, including Prof. Rabbani, and discussed with them the political and military situation in Afghanistan. He also met with Pakistan and UN officials concerned with the Afghan issue.
Benon Sevan, the UN secretary-general's special envoy for Afghanistan, held extensive talks with -the Mujahideen leaders in Peshawar. He seems worried that the agreement reached in Moscow should not jeopardize his efforts for finding a political solution to the Afghan problem. He has said Moscow talks could not eliminate the need for intra-Afghan dialogue, The Mujahideen are opposed to negotiation with the Kabul regime.
It is said that the UN proposed talks between Afghans which was supposed to be held before the end of the year in Geneva has been postponed. The new UN secretary-general might need some time to get used to the issue.
The Kabul regime continues to play down the importance^ of agreement reached in Moscow. Remarks by the three Mujahideen leaders opposed to the talks has provided ammunition for the regime media. Ahmad Shah Masood has reported, however, that Moscow talks have had a demoralizing effect on the regime officers who have started to contact the Mujahideen in greater number than before.
Diplomatic sources in Kabul have reported that Soviets are reducing the number of their diplomats from Kabul and Mazar. AFP has given the number of Soviet diplomats in Kabul 60 who are helped by more than 200 workers.