flPCHflH HEH8 VOL -III, HO. 16, 15/9/1967, PRGE 8
                  FROM THE DIARY OF JIHAD
it was the second day of Eid-e-Qurban (the Festivity of the Sacrifice). I and two of my friends went to visit a Mujahid who had lost one leg and one eye by mine explosion in Parian
of Panjshir.
About ten other persons were present in the room. Next to the wounded brother was sitting a young man with smiling face and
neat clothes.
After the customary greetings (shaking hands), a Mujahid brother by the name Ibrahim, who knew everyone in the room, e introduced us to each other. He Introduced the young man besides the wounded Mujahid as a Mujahideen doctor.
Then the doctor cried to "say" something. And only then I realized he was deaf and dumb. He used sign language.
The name of the doctor was Fazlur Rahman. He has been engaged in Jiliad in the battlefield for the past several years. One of his brothers was martyred last year.
Fazlur Rahman has not studied in any medical college. At. the beginning he was assigned to assist Dr.Maroof, a mujahid doctor, in carrying his medical equipment from one village to an other. After some years, because of his talent and interest, as well as Dr. Maroof’s efforts,he became a skilled surgent.
He has treated many wounded Mujahideen so far.
He is a doctor who is active day and night under the harshest war conditions. When he hears about a wounded Mujahid, he quickly crosses high mountains and difficult passes to reach the Mujahid like an "angel of mercy".
The local people of Panjshir have many stories about Fazlur Rahinan. He not only treats Mujahideen, but like a kind nurse he takes care of them and even cooks them meals. Like a caring mother, he sits on their bed-side and consoles them. He is also a courageous fighter who takes part in aimed struggle.
I told Ibrahim, who was communicating with fazlur Rahman by sign language, to ask him if he likes to go to Pakistan.
Fazlur Rahman’s face changed arid you could see the signs of anger. He put the side of his right hand on his throat and made some other signs. Ibrahim translated them as stating, "I pre fer to be? killed here."
Then Fazlur Rahman took some medicine out of his briefcase and made some signs. Ibrahim said "he says., 'if I go to Pakistan, who will treat the Mujahideen?'”
I was deeply impressed by this scene. I realized that if Muja hideen lack many experts and educated persons, they certainly have a lot of committed and concerned individuals.
It also became clear to me that it is possible to learn things in the hot battlefields of Jihad and provide valuable services without ever attending any schools or universities.