flFGHRH HEUS VOL.Ill, HO. 19, 1/10/ IW7 PBGE 3
 The withdrawal of the enemy troops from Pushghor is considered a big victory for the Mujahideen and a sign of weakness of the enemy.
                                            KANDAHAR PROVINCE
 17/9/1987. A report received through a phone call from our Office in Quetta says that Mujahideen of Kandahar under the command of Mulla Naqib conducted a massive preplaned operation on Kandahar Airport, south of the city. The attacked was launched from a hill called Zakir Shah situated 3 km from the Airport. Different heavy and light weapons including BM-12, BM-1,82mm rifles, were used by the Mujahideen in shelling the Airport.
 Hours after the operation, the Mujahideen received news of the enemy casualties* through their contacts from the Airport stating that 8 military aircrafts lying in the Airport were damaged by the Mujahideen shelling. The report adds that 30 Russian soldiers were either killed or wounded in addition to 9 government soldiers who were captured alive. Three Mujahideen were wounded in the operation.
 In retaliation, the Russians bombed Arghandab district for three consecutive days. No casualties has been reported. ,
 12/9/1987. Mujahideen of Kandahar attacked a joint Russian-DRA force between Charbagh and Arghandab areas. Vithin hours of severe fighting, 30 Russian soldiers were kilied,40 puppet soldiers were captured and three tanks were destroyed.
 Latter on the Russian airforces resorted to retaliatory bombardment of civilian targets in Charbagh and Char Qala. No casualties have been reported.
                                             PAKTIKA PROVINCE
 3/9/1987. Mujahideen of Katawaz district ambushed an enemy armoured column which was heading towards Katawaz from Ghazni province. As a result, two tanks and one military truck were destroyed and 27 puppet soldiers were killed. Three Mujahideen were martyred and another wounded.
                                            HERAT PROVINCE .
 23/9/1987. A report received through a phone call from our Office in Quetta says that a well-known government militia commander, namely Arbab Ghani, from Kushk district, surrendered to Herat Mujahideen along with 2000 of his armed militia men. They brought with them more than 1,000 guns of different types, a large quantity of ammunition and food stuff and about 3 million Afgs.
 In retaliation, Russians bombarded Kushk district and the fierce fighting between Mujahideen led by Ismael Khan and enemy forces is going on. About 5.000 Mujahideen including some units from Badghis led by Commander Nik Mohammad have participated in the fighting. Still there is no report about the casualties.
                                             FARTAB PROVINCE
 2/9/1987. The enemy air and ground forces attacked the surrounding areas of Faryab city Besides severe bombardment causing heavy destruction to nearly 3,000 houses in the. «rea, Russians have used various kinds of chemicals and those affected are mainly suffering from skin diseases in the head as well as frequent body itching. About 17 mosques were destroyed in eight different villages.
 Severe clashes between Mujahideea and enemy forces have reportedly lasted 20 days during which about 250 enemy soldiers were killed among whom were a Commander of KHAD and militia commander namely UbaiduHah including some other officers. About 10 Kiashinkoves were also seized from the enemy.