flFBHRH HEMS UCJL . (I I, HO.18, 15/9/199?, PtWE 7
A. Zaher Shah cannot serve the Afghan nation under the present conditions. At this point, stopping the war and Jihad in Afghan nistan is an act of treason. This war must reach its climex, which will mean enemy's military defeat and Russians' readiness to talk directly to Mujahideen. Until and unless Russians directly talk to Mujahideen, who are the real representative of the Afghan people, any half-way talks and half-way solu tions are not in the interest of this nation, nor in the interest of Islam. Thus, if Zaher Shah or anyone else commits such an action in the name of serving the nation, he is rejected by Mujahideen.
Q. if Zaher Shah does not oppose the armed Jihad of the Afghan people and wants to lead it, what will be your view?
A. Zaher shah or anyone else who can really unite the Mujahi-. cleen and lead Ihem against the Russians--anyone who really has the capability to do this and serve Islam--we will not have anything against him.
About Zaher shah, however, he is not the person from whom we can expect this. In my view, first of all he is not ready for such a job. Secondly, he lacks the experience about military affairs and the present circumstances in Afghanistan. He also lacks the necessary competence and skills.
During his rule in Afghanistan, when the normal situation prevailed and the country was calm, Zaher Shah^did not demonstrate any competence in carrying out his duties. How could he undertake the leadership now under the present conditions?
Thus, in spite of Zaher Shah's claims, his past record shows he is not the man of action and struggle and connot serve the nation.
0. If the U.S., the Soviet Union and Pakistan all agree on bringing Zaher Shah to power, what will happen then?
A. What has caused Russians' failure todaji is God's Mercy first. In the realm of Possibilities, It is the Afghan nation^ determination which has led to Russians' defeat, when the Afghan people do not want something, no superpower could impose it by force. At the present, the Afghan people do not want Zaher Shah, and the superpowers connot make him their ruler by force.
Q. Some political observers believe Russians want to leave Afghanistan but do not know how. As a famous commander of Mujahideen, can you present a practical proposal so that Russians withdraw their troops from Afghanistan and peace and se~ curty returns to the country?
A. We believe war and Jihad has not reached its maturity in Afghanistan yet. We still have a long distance from Mtijahideens goals which are genuine freedom of Afghanistan and establishment of an Islamic state.
1 do not have any particular proposal in regard to what you said. It is up to the leaders what kind of proposals they present. in my personal view, however, continuation of Jihad is better at this stage then finding political solutions.