AFGHANews Vol 7, No 9, May 1,1991, page ©
Asadabad tragedy exposes regime’s criminal nature
The missile attack on Asadabad, the provincial capital of Kunar, in which about 1000 civilian people, including women and. children, were killed and wounded is an unforgivable crime committed by the Soviet-backed Kabul regime. This was a terrorist attack on a civilian target far from the battlefields.
Asadabad is about SO kilometers north of Jalalabad, where the Kabul regime maintains a presence. It was liberated in 1988 and its people lived in peace. Some of its inhabitants returned from refugee camps, and reconstruction work on roads and irrigation systems had begun with the help of the UN and other relief organizations.
The Kabul regime's missile attack on Kunar was terrorism aimed at avenging its military defeat in .Khost. The attack has provoked condemnation by all the Mujahideen groups, the Pakistan government and the US. The Mujahideen have said they will punish the Kabul regime for its criminal action in Kunar.
The attack on Asadabad demonstrated the great risks the refugees face if they return before the fall of the Kabul regime. The so-called 'tranquility zones' of the UN proved to be a death trap for innocent people. The UN is unable to check the crimes committed by the Kabul regime against the civilian population.
The incident exposed the criminal nature of the Kabul regime. Najib does not hesitate to use weapons of mass destruction against civilian targets. The Kabul ruler, who is a KGB-trained professional criminal, does not hesitate to commit any crime which may help him to remain in power a little longer.
Mikhail Gorbachev has provided SCUD missiles to Najib. He also is responsible for the mass-murder of civilians in Afghanistan. Although the Soviet leader was decorated with the Nobel Peace Prize, he continues to equip his puppets in Kabul with weapons of mass destruction.
The Nobel Peace Committee is advised to withdraw the prize it gave to Gorbachev because it continues to support the regime's war efforts by providing arms, ammunition, military advisors and economic and political support.
The UN, human rights organizations and the world media should exert pressure on the Soviet government to stop giving weapons of mass destruction to the Kabul regime, and to take back its SCUDs. Soviet technicians help the Kabul regime to fire SCUD missiles from Kabul and Mazar-i-Sharif.
The Mujahideen must punish the Kabul regime for its crime in Kunar, but they should choose their targets carefully so that civilian are not hurt.
Jami'at sympathizes with Kurds
The plight of the Kurds is a source of great concern to Jami'at Islami Afghanistan. The Afghans' sympathy for the Kurds is natural because Afghans have been facing a similar situation at the hands of the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime.	-	/
Kurds are part of the Islamic Ummah and they have contributed a great deal to Islamic civilization. Their tragedy began with the end of the Ottoman Empire. The short-sighted nationalistic policies of the countries in which Kurds lived made life difficult for them. The plight of Kurds in Iraq under the Ba'th party has been a very painful episode.
During the Iraq-Iran war, Kurds were mass-murdered by Saddam Husain's army, by means of chemical weapons. But due to political, economic and strategic considerations, the world powers forgave Baghdad for this crime. Some countries did not even allow the news of the Kurdish massacre to be printed in their papas.
The latest phase in the plight of the Kurds began with the Gulf crisis sparked
Turn to page (7 )
Wahdat office opened in city
Hezb-i-Wahdat
Islami
Afghanistan's office was opened in Peshawar on April 3. Hezb-i-Wahdat is a Shia party based in Teheran.
According to Besharat, Hezb-i-Wahdat's papa in Peshawar, Sayyed Husian Jagran, a commander belonging to Shura-i-Ittifaq, has joined Hezb-i-Wahdat. Sayyed Husain-paid a visit to Tehran at the invitation of Iranian Foreign Ministry. He flow back from Tehran to Peshawar on a special plane of the Iranian government.
Sikhs among
fresh refugees
Seventy Hindu and mkh families are among the several thousand Afghan refugees who Crossed the border into Pakistan following the fall of Khost on March 31. They said they were not involved in politics, but owned shops and were involved in trade.
Kabul regime gives passport to refugees
The Kabul regime has said it will give passports to Afghans living in exile so that they can visit Afghanistan, Radio Kabul reported. The report said die returning Afghans will be allowed to leave Afghanistan if they wished, and those eligible for military service will not be conscripted for six months. Regime embassies abroad have been directed to issue passports far applicants living in exile. The Kabul regime said the step was taken to promote its "national reconciliation" policy.
Quake, floods destroy houses in the north
An earthquake destroyed more than 100 houses and killed- or wounded dozens of residents of Gandumqpol and Khombok areas of Kishm District, Badakhshan Province, on April 21, MIDIA re ported, quoting Commander Aryanpoor.
According to a separate report, floods killed about SO people and destroyed scores of houses in Khwaja Ghar District, Takhar Province on April 13. Thousands^f acres of agricultural land , was damaged.

4