Vol 8, No 8
Salang, Charikar
After major victories in the north, the Mujahideen^ of Jami'at, under the command of Ahmad Shah Masood, scored another important victory close to Kabul when they captured South Salang, Jabulseraj District and Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan Province.
The Mujahideen captured all the regime posts in South Salang on April
13.
On April 14, captured Jabulseraj and Charikar, 50 kilometers north of the capital. The Mujahideen are advancing towards Bagram Air Base about 30 kilometers north of Kabul
The Mujahideen have captured at least 60 tanks and huge quantities of arms and ammunitions of different types. No details were available when this report was filed.
Masood has praised the support given by the local people, some army units and government officers in Charikar to the Mujahideen.
AFGHANews learned from sources within the Supervisory Council that: Commander Masood has mobilized a large force and has planned major at tacks on other enemy targets. Details of the fighting will published in the next
statement
Boutros Ghali, the UN General Secretary, announced in Geneva on April 10 that all the parties involved in the Afghan conflict had reached an agreement on the formation of a pretransition council comprised of 15 impartial personalities.
He said ceasefire and general amnesty will be announced once the the council is formed.
The announcement pleased foreign countries interested in Afghanistan. Pakistan, Iran and US welcomed the announcement.
The Mujahideen, however, disputed the announcement saying that no unanimous agreement was reached on the issue. They also expressed worry about selection of the 15 members of the council from among the various lists provided to the UN by different groups — Mujahideen, pro-Zahir Shah people and the Kabul regime.
The Mujahideen sources revealed the list of 15 members of the council selected by UN. Most of them were supporters of the former king.
Disputing the contents of the UN announcement, the Mujahideen reported that in last meeting, held between
the Mujahideen and Sevan, two leaders — Prof. Sayyaf and Mawlawi Khalis — were not present pome other leaders had tied their approval of the plan to some conditions. Jami'at had not provided the list of its candidates for the membership of the council to the UN envoy.
The opposition of the Mujahideen to the announcement forced Mr. Sevan to issue a statement denying that he had selected the members of die council. The statements said no foreignercan impose a solution on Afghans who have knight for 13 years to get their right of self-determination.
Informed sources said some of those whose names were revealed as the member of the council have anived in Pakistan and other have been issued visas to join the team. If there were no selection of die members of the council, as Sevan claims, who then invited them to come to Pakistan?
The Mujahideen leaders are being busy to prepare the list of impartial personalities ( acceptable to them. Prof. Sayyaf and Mawlawi Khalis sent their reprsentative to the talks.
To page (2).
April 15,1992
us, PAKISTAN FEED KABUL
Pakistan and US have decided to send food to Kabul to prevent further deterioration of the situation in the Afghan capital and to help the UN peace process.
The UN Secretary-General Boutros Ghali has called for sending 30,000 tonnes of food to Kabul. Pakistan and the US will provide 10,000 tonnes of wheat each.
Pakistan's military planes have begun airlifting wheat to Kabul and so far, have transported 180 tonnes. The rest is planned to be send by road.
The Government of Pakistan has said the decision to sent food to Kabul was taken on humanitarian grounds. It is reported that the UN has borrowed the food from Pakistan. A senior officer of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan has said the food is sent to Kabul to calm down the situation and give time for the UN peace plan. The UN Special Envoy on Afghanistan Benon Sevan told BBC that sending food to Kabul was not just a humanitarian task. Its main aim was to help the peace process, he said.
Due to problems in die former Soviet Union, transportation of food to Kabul became a difficult task and -Russia stopped sending of food supply to Kabul because of problems at home Prom die wheat promised by Kazakhstan, only a fraction pf that reached the border town of Hayratan. Winter and road blocks due to tension between Kabul and the militia forces disrupted transportation of food'from Mazar to Kabul. These factors pushed the prices of food very high in Kabul and the rest of Afghanistan. Kabul market has never been short of food but the high price made the available food beyond the reach of ordinary people.
At the end of March, the Economic Minister of the Kabul re-
(I
To page (7)