AmHAHevs
August LSS8S,
Page 2I
News
from the battlefields *■-. ......... -.
Balkh
The Mujahideen under the command of Mohammad Aiam, jami’at‘s General j Commander in Bellch..
| captured a BRA urban, security fesse killing four officers and 2$ soldiers and seising 12 trucks of foodstuff and arms on July 2nd.
Situated la Shadyan area at the vicinity ol the provincial capital,, the base whieh belonged to Saraadoy (Parantilicary units) and KHAD was under Mujahideen seige for one month before it was taken over. Being constantly reinforced by the Russian-BRA forces, the base was one of the enemy s strong security posts around the city, established to prevent j Mujahideen infiltration into ! the city,
1 In the lighting some of the j soldiers managed to escaped hut the rest were caught,
•The Mujahideen launched a night attars on a Russian post in the city destroying a supply helicopter on the ground, two tanks, setting ablaze an arms dump and killing 11 Russian soldiers on June 28,
The Mujahideen lost one man and three others were injured. The next day the Russians retaliated the attack fey bombing Marnool village i killing six residents and destroying some houses.
Ghazni
The Mujahideen from jamiat with the help of other local units carried out a large offensive in which they destroyed eight security post in Maidanshahr, the provincial capital of Ghazni, An unknown number of BRA militiamen and soldiers were killed in the course of eight hours fighting on 25 June.
The Mujahideen lost three men and four others were wounded,
Herat
The Mujahideen shot down a Russian helicopter when it was bombing Tajikistan area of Farah province on June 12. The plane subsequently caught fire and crushed near Koh Pashtoo area close to the Farafe Airfield,
•Two enemy security posts were destroyed in Naw Shafer area when hit fey Mufafeideen rockets m June 20, The Mujahideen took prisoner a KHAB officer namely Abdul Musa, captured eight Kalashinkovt and killed five soldiers without any casualties on their side
•The Mujahideen attacked an enemy base in Qaiai Kuhna area near Shindand Airbase, killing 50 soldiers, wounding 15 others and taking 25
others with their weapons on June 28, The Mujahideen also captured 60 Kalashinkove rifles, five machine guns, two DSchk and a number of hand grenades. The Mujahideen lost two men and some others were wounded,
Kabul
The Mujahideen led fey Jam! at commander Naqifeuliah, attacked PSA security bases near Koht Safi destroying five posts, taking prisoner eight soldiers, seizing three heavy machine guns, 25 Kalashinkov rifles and four communication sets on 24 June.
The posts which were situated on three mountainous areas were established fey the BRA to disturb Mujahideen supply routes.
From the Mujahideen three were killed and eight othrs wounded in the operation which lasted for six hours.
•The Mujahideen attacked three DRA posts in Qarabagh district killing 12 soldiers, capturing 11 Kalsshlafcov rifles and a wireless set on 18 June.
Two Mujahideen were killed and three were injured in the fighting,
Kunar
The Mujahideen from JamFst wiped out three BRA posts in Tareefa area taking prisoner 20 soldiers, killing iO others, capturing H fUiashinkov rifles, three machine guns and a ZPU on June 15-
The posts were situation in the provincial center of Kunar, The attack was carried out under the command of t Khan Jan,
Qandahar
Five Russian soldiers were killed when a
1
t