AFGHANews Vol 6, No 9, May 1, 1990, page ©
Hezb negotiates secretly with regime, Soviets
A ranking regime officer has told a Kuwaiti journalist that Hezb Islami Hikmatyar representatives have met regime officials two times. The first meeting was held in Baghdad with the mediation of PLO chief, Yaser Arafat, and the second meeting in Libya with the mediation of Libyan officials. The news was revealed by Najmuddin Kawyani a politburo member of PDPA, in an interview with Al-Syassah Daily in Kabul. The interview was published in the March 18 edition of the paper.
Kawyani said two representatives of Hezb, Abdul Qadir Karyab and Ghairat Bahir met with representatives of the Kabul regime in the Palestine Embassy in the presence of Yaser Arafat about six months before the completion of the Soviet troops withdrawal. Qadir Karyab is the head of the Political Office of Hezb and Ghairat Bahir the head of the Special Office of Hezb and Hikmatyar’s son-in-law. He said the representatives of Hezb met with the regime delegation on condition that the meeting should remain secret.
The second meeting was organized by Dr. Ahmad Sharif the head of a Libyan religious organization call Dawatul-Islamiah. Arafat had shown a desire for mediation between the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime. Other Mujahideen parties rejected the idea. Arafat met with Hikmatyar in Islamabad in 1989 when he visited
Pakistan.
While the Baghdad meeting was earlier reported by some papers the news about meeting in Libya was new.
Hezb Islami reject any type of contact with the Kabul regime. Kawyani has also disclosed his meeting with Ahmad Gailani, son of Sayyed Ahmad Gailani the leader of NIFA, a moderate Mujahideen party.
Contacts between Hezb Islami and the Soviets have increased recently. A few weeks ago a Hezb Islami paper, Shahadat, published an interview of Hezb leader with ’ a panel of Soviet journalists' . One of the so-called Soviet journalists was a Middle East expert with close ties with Govrbachev. Hezb sources have revealed meetings between the Soviet officials and a Hezb delegation in West Germany recently. The meetings between the.two sides continued for two days. The Hezb delegation was led by Ghairat Bahir.
A Soviet delegation visited Hezb’s Political Office on April 19 to discuss the prisoners of war issue with that party’s officials. Independent contacts be tween Hezb and the Soviets was main tained even when Hezb was a member the AIG, but these contacts were kept secret. Since Hezb left the AIG the contacts with the Soviets are publicized.
Jami'at leader praises role of disabled Mujahideen in Jehad
Prof. Rabbani gave a dinner party for a group of handicapped Mujahideen on April 15. Addressing the gathering, Jami'at leader praised the contribution of the handicapped Mujahideen in forcing the Soviets to leave Afghanistan. He called the handicapped Mujahideen " the living martyrs of the Islamic revolution”.
Dr. Haqbeen, the representative of the Supervisory Council in Peshawar, told the gathering that the war-wounded Mujahideen were eager to be treated quickly so that they could return to the front and resume their activities. He said a few groups of such people returned to the battlefield last year after receiving necessary
treatment.
The head of handicapped affairs department of AIG has said that since his department started working some months ago, more than 10,000 handicapped Mujahideen have been regis tered and identification cards have been distributed to them. Each registered handicapped will get a monthly allow ance from the AIG. He said friendly Countries and private relief organizations have been helping the handicapped Mujahideen by providing them with artificial limbs and treating them.
The ten years of war has made a large number of Afghans handicapped. They need to be taken care of and most of them also have families to be supported.
A BBC reporter from. Kabul says that the people in Kabul suffer from tiigh prices.;
get
a monthly salary of 7,000 Afs. while |kU6gi^f^: lamb can befound
According to diplomatic sources Soviets have increased the number of their military advisors in Afghanistan to500men.
Until TanaiT$ coup there were 300 Soviet advisors who helped the advisors are stationed in f Kabul,: Mazar and Kunduz* provinces, Soviets deny in >|®ei||||bf th^|d^ors in combat activities;':-
% ' »**
y J The Kabul regime has iappointed
fraud &&zm Yar, one of the secretaries of ti^PDPA, as file new ambassador of the regime to
He replaces Sayed Mohammad Gulabzoy who was accused' of supporting Tanal's coup;;.;:
Razm Yar is a graduate Of econo tny from the Soviet Union,
... .
of hu^ari
tights says that 25,000 members of the regime’s 's^irei police work under IliM^utrol oE'KGB' bfecerisl||| was sent to the Congress says Jhat	wit-
nessjto; anyimpjtoyem	m;(uie;liu
man rightssituation in M^amstan.-• ItyAfr w^createdsmfi by
the
was thepst leader of WAD^ In addition p activities it also has armed groups ivho-^are"' epi|d§i |Jg Ughtllnd
. -The . training . ’ program'. . of Freedom Medicine was rmally
pttilpiby^td	Mini^oH
the AJ^.^:A^rU::
rx>:v;;:^itjuh-': bnp;$£ai, the Aid wil take over all the activities of Freedom
Medicin^^^:^;;'
§1	Medicine	has	two
pitals in F^isian for Afg&rijrclu gees and supports many clinics inside Sg&istar®