AFGHAN NEWS
P-J52
                          No, 16         22-10-85
    Chak District is a beautiful valley which has been liberated for a long time. Fortunately there is an understanding between the different ..Mujahideen groups, Jamiat is well-established in this area.
                                NORTH SALANG
    Soviet forces attacked the Jamiat base in Bajgah (at the mouth of the Andarab valley) and fighting continued for seven days. No details of casualties from either side have yet been given,
                                          PANJSHIR VALLEY
    8-10-85
    The enemy landed commando troops in Shotol valley (a small valley parallel to the Panjshir main valley). Severe fighting took plft.ce between them and Mujahideen. One hundred enemy soldiers were killed.
    No figure for Mujahideen casualties is given in the report.
    5-10-85
    Soviets have intensified the aerial bombardments of the Panjshir valley. In one day they dropped 100 bombs in Till and' three hundred in Mokoni side valley. Fighting against enemy convoys is continuing in Malaspa and Astana (the two villages of Bazarak). These convoys resupply the two bases of Pushghour and Baharak.
                           U^Si'^TRADE. WITH_THE PUPPET REGIME
    The American government speaks openly, against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and does not recognize the puppet regime of Babrak Karmal.
    But Afghanistan has been given a "most favorite nation status" in trade. Among other things, Americans are selling spare aeroplane parts ‘ to‘Arlana. Airlines. Trade with the puppet regime J?®acdist_25 mil-liohDollars each year. We do not know how the American government can answer to this contradictory policy. Any relationship of this kind is considered by the Mujahideen as an unfriendly action toward the Afghan people who are fighting against the Soviets and their puppets. This type of relationship can create doubts in the mind of ordinary Afghans abotit. U.S .policy towards Afghanistan.
                                         Tir2*!25$® _ 2*L 255^2
    1- In the Pusiighoor operation which took place in July of the current year, 60 Mujahideen defeated and captured more than 500 of the enemy
   ' soldiers with only two casualties.
    2- After the Pushghoor operation the Soviets launched a massive attack against a a narrow side valley called Mokoni, The purpose of the enemy was to rescue prisoners of war. About ^00 people including local Mujahideen, local people and a great number of Mujahideen from outside the valley were caught in the. attack. The narrow valley was sealed by Soviet commandos who landed by helicopters. Throughout the day Jets and helicopters dropped bombs and the enemy artillery and long-range rockets were pounding the valley.At the end of the day all the people escaped
   from the enemy encirclement and only one lady was martyred.