AFGHANews Vol 6, No 6, March 15,1990, page ©
Power struggle
Parwan province
The Mujahideen belonging to the Supervisory Council of Jami'at blocked the Salang highway for one week, beginning from February 27 and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy.
Attacks on the enemy posts and convoys were launched inside the Salang valley and on the Jabulseraj-Charikar section of the Salang road. Qala-i-Surkh garrison, at the mouth of the Salang valley, was attacked with heavy weapons.
In the first five days of fighting a total of 38 trucks and six tanks were destroyed, two trucks and two oil tankers were captured. 15 of the trucks were destroyed in Salang, five in Jabulseraj and the rest between Matack bridge and Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan province.
The enemy casualties have been very high but could not be estimated immediately.
Twenty civilians were killed by the enemy during indiscriminate firing and 50 were injured in various parts of Shamali. A SCUD missile killed three civilians and wounded two in Gulbahar on March 3. Two, Mujahideen were also killed,
Kandahar province
Two officers and four soldiers defected to the Mujahideen on March 7th in Speen Boldak district, bringing with diem one tank, four machine-guns, one rocket launcher and one pistol.
One ranking regime officer and K) soldiers were killed and 13 were wounded when the Mujahideen with heavy weapons, under the command of Mullah Naqibullah attacked their positions in the divisional headquarters and Kandahar prison on March 11. Some buildings were set on fire.
One Mujahid was injured in a wane explosion.
Ghore province
Fifty soldiers surrendered to the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Taiwara district on March 11. They brought with them one mortar, one 14.6 mm machine-gun, four rockets launchers and 50 guns.
Herat province
The Herat-Islam Qala road has been blocked for 15 days, Ismael Khan reported. As a result of the fighting 12 enemy soldiers including a ranking officer of the enemy have been killed and two trucks have been destroyed.
Kunduz province
After the abortive coup of Shah Nawaz Tani purges of Khalqi military officers in Kunduz by Najib have been reported.
Four brigadiers and 14 other officers were arrest in Kunduz in connection with the coup. Some of captured officers are:
1-	Brigadier Azad Khan, deputy commander of 54th division
2-	Brigadier Abdullah, political chief of of 54th division
3-	Brigadier Masood, commander-of47 battalion
Kabul province
The Kabul regime has announced the death of General Sharif, the deputy commander of Kabul garrison. He was killed in the failed coup attempt against Najib.
According to Radio. Kabul, General Abdul Hakim, a pilot of the regime air force was buried with full military honor in Kabul. He was killed in action against the Resistance. The radio did not say when, where and how he Whs killed.
From page (1)
rejecting the allegation said it was the internal problems of the regime. The Pakistan foreign office spokesman said the incident showed that the Najihullah regime is not acceptable to Afghans.
Three planes with forty people, including relatives of Tani, reached Pakistan but there were conflicting reports about Tani's whereabout
A recorded message of Tani was circulated in Peshawar. He had asked his party members to continue their straggle against Najib. Some Pakistani papers reported that he was in Pakistan but the report could not be confirmed.
Najib had the advantage of controlling the radio station during the coup. He used to assure his supporters that the situation was under control. His quick action in appointing Khalqis ministers also helped him.
The Kabul regime announced the expulsion of the following five people from the Defence Council of the regime because of their involvement in the coup:
1-	Shah Nawaz Tani
2-	Naik Mohammad Mohmand
3-	Meer Sahib Karwal
4-	General Nazar Mohammad
5-	General Abdul Qadir
Likewise, Sayed Mohammad
Gulabzoy, Saleh Mohammad Zeray and Dastagir Panjshiri were relieved of their party positions.
General Tani was a politburo member of the ruling party. He has been educated in the Soviet Union. He was promoted to the rank of a Genial because of his participation in various battles against the Mujahideen. He gained much publicity in the world press when he successfully cleared the way to Khost in 1988. He was the leader of the Khalq faction of the PDPA which is more hard-line then the Parcham faction, headed by Najibullah.
Najib has announced the formation of a tribunal to try officers involved in the coup. The coup has weakened Najibullah and narrowed his power base. Najib has to spend a lot time dealing with the problems arising from the coup especially removing the Khalqi officers from important posi tions in the army arid air force.
No major defection of the regime troops to the Mujahideen have been reported. The time of military encounters between the two factions was brief giving no chance to the Mujahideen to ex ploit it Tani has vowed to continue to struggle against Najib and Hikmatyar supports his efforts.