AFGHANews Vol 5, No 15, August 1, 1989, page ©
Mujahideen rockets hit prime minister's office
Regime-controlled radio and television covered a recent meeting between some elders of Shemali ( north of Kabul) and the head of the communist regime. Both side were asking l or opening of the road but for deferent types of convoys.
The elders of Shemali asked Najib to lift the blockade of their areas and alow private transportations to run between Kabul and Shemali which is controlled by the Mjahideen.
Najib asked the Mujahideen through the elders to leave the road open for all sorts of convoys, military and civilian. They could not agree.
It is reported that after the failure of the meeting, the regime started to bomb Shemali from air and ground causing extensive losses in life and property.
When the section of Salang Road between Kabul and Bagram air base became risky for the regime convoys, it built a new dirt road connecting Bagram air base to Khawja Rawash airport. After constructing the new road the regime blocked the old road at Khair Khana pass. The people living north of Kabul depend on trade with the city. They are facing problems as a result of the road block. The people of the area are fanners who grow grapes which were sold in Kabul and in the neighboring countries of India and Pakistan. Due to road blocks they will not be able to sell fruit abroad and even selling fruit in Kabul is doubtful because Najib has connected the opening of road with an overall peace agreement between him and the Mujahideen in the area. His proposals have been re-
jected by the Mujahideen.
Rocket attacks on Kabul have increased recently. On July 22, six rockets hit the heart of the city where the regime's administrative buildings are located. One of the rockets landed close to the prime minister's office. According to regime sources, 40 people were killed in the attack.
On July 16, a powerful bomb exploded near the ministry of finance, a few hundred yards from the presidential palace. Twenty people were reportedly killed. The regime blamed the Mujahideen for the explosion.
Unprecedented security measures were taken in Kabul on July 20. Tanks and armored cars guarded the strategic points in the city and house searches were carried out all over the city. The regime said the reason for the search was to locate arms and ammunition smuggled by the Mujahideen but did not announce the discovery of any arms and ammunition.
Reports from Kabul say that tension between Khalqis and Perchamis have increased. The two factions which make up the PDPA are competing with each other for power.
Recently Najib reconciled with supporters of Babrak and reinstated Beryalay, Babrak’s brother, and made him Deputy Prime Minister. Khalqis who have majority in the army resent consolidation of the Perchamis' position. Khalqis also seems worried about the Vorontsov's policy of supporting Najib.
There were rumors that General Tani, regime Defense Minister, was under house arrest because of anti-Najib activities.
Regime frees American journalist
The US closed its embassy in
American journalist, Tony O'Brien, was freed by the Kabul regime oh July 20 after six weeks of detention.
O'Brien had entered Afghanistan with the Mujahideen to cover the war but was arrested by the security forces of the regime.
Yasser Arafat, the PLO chairman, asked the Kabul regime to release O’Brien. Arafat’s request came after he showed intention to mediate between the Mujahideen and the communist regime in Kabul.
To arrange for his freedom a consular officer from American embassy in New Delhi visited Kabul.
Kabul on security grounds before the completion of the Soviet troop withdrawal.
Mr. O'Brien was not tried and he was only charged with illegal entry into Afghanistan. In the past the regime tried captured journalists and relief workers who travelled with the Mujahideen on charges of espionage.
Informed source believe that O'Brien's release by Najib is an attempt to improve the regimes image in theUS public eye.
The regime hopes that this will help its propaganda drive to put pressure on Bush Administration to stop supplying arms to the Mujahideen.
A issue wim
Iran Foreign Minister, Dr. Ali Akber Velayati, concluded a two-day visit to Islamabad during which he discussed the Afghan issue with Pakistani leaders. He also met with Mujahideen leaders.
Iran and Pakistan who are neighbors of Afghanistan and host to five million refugees would like to see an end to war so that the refugees can return home.
One of the issues discussed between Irani and Pakistani leaders is broadening the base of the Afghan Interim Government. The eight-party coalition of Mujahideen based in Iran has remained out of the Interim Government The differences between Peshawar-based Mujahideen and Tehran-based Mujahideen started when the two sides did not agree on the number of seats for the Iran-based parties in the Consultative Council which former the Interim Government in February this year.
Four ministerial posts have been offered to the Iran-based parries by the Interim Government. Sources close to the Shia parties say that they want at least one important ministerial post in the Interim Government as a condition for joining. The ministries of the Interior, defence, finance, foreign affairs and reconstruction are considered important. These ministries are distributed among the seven Peshawar-based par ties forming the Interim Government.
Recently the eight-party coalition Shoora-e-Ittifaq, an independent Shia party, and three small factions headed by Qazi Amin, Mawlawi Mansoof and Mawlawi Moazin have agreed to coordinate their activities. Ibis was interpreted by some sources as an attempt to form a parallel government based in Tehran. When Professor Rabbani visited Tehran in mid-July the leaders of those parties denied forming a parallel government.
Exploiting the differences between the Mujahideen based in Iran and Pakistan, the Soviets have tried to deal with the Shia parties separately. So far they have rejected the Soviet offers for regional autonomy and a coalition government with the communists but the Soviets have not lost hope.
Improvement in the Iran-Soviet re lationship could increase the level contacts between the Soviets and the Iran based parties.