AFGHANews Vol8, No 10 & 11, June 1,1992, page ©
Afghan situation key to
Barnett R. Rubin fa
The crumbling of the Soviet' installed regime in Afghanistan does not signify merely the end of the last Cold War conflict. It also marks the end of the divisions imposed by European colonialism on Central Asia. Whether Afghanistan reconsolidates or relapses into factional fighting will affect the entire region from Turkey and Iran, through the newly independent Central Asian republics of the former USSR, to Pakistan and India.
No single state ever ruled this area, but long-distance trade along roads like the famed Silk Route bound it together. The advance of European empires in the nineteenth century divided it Russia conquered the peoples of Turkestan, while the British took India and advanced toward Afghanistan. Ultimately the British and Russians agreed to leave Afghanistan an isolated buffer state.
The divisions only deepened with the conquest of Russian Turkestan by Soviet power. Not only did the new state close the borders even more completely; it also tried to transform the areas societies and culture. The Soviets tried to substitute the more "modem" identity of "nationality" for identification with Islam. Out of a disparate group of people, they recognized five "nationalities:" Kazakh, Kirghiz, Turkmen, Uzbek, and Tajik, the first four speaking dialects of Turkic and the last of Persian.
To isolate these peoples further, Moscow imposed the Russian Cyrillic script instead of the Perso-Arabic script previously in use. Each "nationality" received a republic, with minorities whose presence posed a permanent threat of conflict, while Russians held most of the real power.
The independence of India and Pakistan in 1947 preceded by only a few years the advent of the Cold War into the region. Afghanistan now stood between the USSR to the north and the U.S.-aligned	Central Treaty
Organization, including Turkey, Iran, and Pakistan, to the south. U.S-Soviet competition in Afghanistan was a major cause of the turmoil in that country, set off by a coup by pro-Soviet officers in 1978.
In 1989 Gorbachev withdrew the 100,000 troops his predecessors had sent to prop up the Afghan Communists. That unsuccessful war was one of many failures that discredited the Soviet system, ultimately lead-
ing to the dissolution of the USSR and the independence of the Central Asian Republics. After the Soviets withdrew their troops, however, their continued aid enabled the regime they left behind to survive for three years. President Najibuilah, the former secret police chief, renounced his ideology. He managed to manipulate the ethnic divisions of Afghan society and the factionalism in his own party to stay in power. But the end of the Cold War, and last January's resultant termination of Soviet and American aid to both sides of the conflict, spelled the end of his rule.
All sides had seen Afghanistan as the key to Central Asia. As long as the latter was under Soviet rule, Islamic militants in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Saudi Arabia, as well as Cold Warriors in Washington, saw aid to the most extreme fundamentalist parties in Afghanistan as a way to spread revolt northward. With the independence of the Central Asian republics, however, Pakistan's political and business establishment decided that their future lay in reopening the old trade routes through Afghanistan. Hence in the past few months Pakistan too ended aid to the extremists and came to support a peace settlement
The approach of this settlement, mediated by the United Nations, set off the maneuvering that has shattered the Kabul regime. The ruling party split along largely ethnic lines. The Tajik and Uzbek ex-Communists ousted Najibuilah, a member of the long dominant Push tun (Afghan) ethnic group, which also predominates among the resistance groups exiled among their coethnics in northwest Pakistan. The coup leaders hoped to assure their survival by allying themselves with Tajik commander Ahmad Shah Masood. Pushtuns in both Afghanistan and Pakistan feared a Tajik-Uzbek takeover and perhaps the unification of Northern Afghanistan with its co-ethnic republics to the north. Masood, however, has used Islamic and nationalist appeals to bring many Push tun commanders into his coalition. He has largely isolated Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, who has tried but so far foiled, to play the ethnic card.
'. The communist policy of assigning people to rigidly defined "nationalities" has provoked ethnic conflict Opportunist or extremist leaders may attempt to profit from it. But other leaders, such as Masood, can work for coalitions spanning-ethnic groups. Indeed,
despite the fear of "Islam” in the West, the belief in equality of all Muslims can help limit the destructive power of ethnic rivalries. Nor do these conflicts necessarily lead to separatism.
Finally, the power of external forces is limited. Today many speak of competition in Central Asia between an Iranian "fundamentalist" model and a Turkish "secular” one. The people of Central Asia, however, are not passive recipients of models. For all the billions of dollars in weapons and other supplies that so many powers have sent into Afghanistan since 1978, none of them now has much leverage over events there.
Nevertheless, these complex socie- j ties will need international aid to recover from devastating war and misrule. Whatever transitional government assumes power in Kabul, it will require urgent supplies of food and medicine and long-term reconstruction. The U.S. and the rest of the international community, which contributed so generously to the war, have a responsibility -and an interest— in contributing the smaller amounts required for the peace and stability of Central Asia. But if this aid is built only on fear of "Islam" or "separatism," it will be misdirected and foil. As much as the halves of divided Europe, the reuniting halves of Central Asia do not merely threaten us but promise to contribute to our common world by recreating a great civilization no longer divided against itself.
•M
Barnett Rubin is an associate professor at Columbia University. He is an expert on Afghanistan and has written many papers on the subject.
r
The Leadership Council has renamed Eid Gah mosque in Kabul as Masjid-Al-Fath (the victory mosque) and has directed that the main Friday congregational prayers should be held there. The Mujahideen leaders will take turns leading the Friday prayers in Masjid-Al-Fath.
The mosque has enough space for parking vehicles and is suitable from a security standpoint
However, does not have any facilities for ablutions and needs to be modified for use during the harsh Kabul winters. The fust Friday prays in Masjid-Al-Faih was led by Prof. Rabbani on May 15.
The leaders may make take the opportunity of the Friday prayer assembly to express theirviews about issues facing the country.