AFGKAHe'ws Vol4, Ho 15. August !. 1938, Page?
Afghans celebrate Eid with sorrow and hopes
THOUSANDS of Afghan refugees living in exile celebrated on July 25 the great lid of Sacrifice (Hid-ui-Azha) in a sentimental mixture of hope and sorrow.
Almost five thousand years ago, the prophet Ehraham inspired by God
coup, the people celebrated Eid with great fervour and. happiness. Relatives of a family would come together and exchanges Eid presents and enjoy themselves for three happy days. It was an especially joyeus occasion for chidren who long awaited preparing everything including new clothes. Eld presents, sweet etc. It was also an occasion of friendly gesture and
A divisive war has separated family members as a mother would not Know about her son and vis versa. Children's iiappy moments have turned into grievences and cries.
They Instead of those sweet presents, are given Russian toys and batterfly mines which have net only removed the smile from their face but removed their hands and legs as well.
obligation to offer to sacrifice his son, Ismael. Ebraham did so, but since it was a divine test of his prophecy, God; instead
AFGHANews wishes a happy Eid to all its Muslim readers
In Afghanistan the Eld prayer Is performed with a constant fear of Russian bombardment.
To say it briefy, in Afghanistan, Eid occasions are not celebrated with
happiness as ■
before. On the
of Ebraham‘s son, accepted a sheep from him. Since then, in order to commemorate that great sacrifice, it remained a religious obligation upon all Muslims to observe it once a year.
Accordingly, every rich Muslim is supposed to sacrifice a sheep or cow and distribute its meat to the poor.
In Afghanistan, before the Communist
reconciliation in the sense that every disputing party would come to each other's house and reconcile together ignoring the	j
past-	|
People from different j towns end villages came together in a central mosque to perform Eid prayer.
Eor nine years, like everything else, Eid has also changed and taken or a different color. The fire of the Russian invasion has burnt every means of people's happy life. The youth are either on the battlefronts or imprisoned in Communis?
contrary, it will be a day of grief and mourning to those families who have lost their beloved. For them, the days of Eid would be spent on the graves of their sons and relative with tearful eyes.
This is all the achievement that the Communist coup d'etat has brought about as a result of "Russia’$ international and historical cooperation with Afghanistan"