AFGHANews Vol 6, No 18 &19 October 1, 1990, page Q
Najib visits Delhi, Paris
Najib has visited India to plead for economic assistance. During his three-day, visit he met with the Indian President, Prime Minister and oth-eiofficials.
The Indian prime minister called Najib ’brother" and praised his role in the war against the Mujahideen. He thanked Najib for his support I or the Indian stand on the Kashmir issue.
Najib asked India to give him 100,000 tons of wheat and 400 buses. India promised to study the request. In order to prevent Afghan refugees from demonstrating, the 10,000-strong Afghan community was ordered by Indian police to stay at home during Najib's visit.
The Kabul regime has had close ties with India since the coup of 1978. Indian pilots helped the Kabul regime in the war against the Mujahideen.
Indian journalists help the Kabul regime to publish the sole English language daily, The Kabul Times. Kabul markets are full of Indian merchandise.
The two sides have agreed to cooperate in cultural, agricultural and narcotics control fields. Najib invited V.P. Sing to visit Kabul.
This was Najib's second visit to India since he came to power. The regime relies more and more on India as Soviet economic support for Kabul shows signs of weakening. The enmity of (he regime with Pakistan makes it analural ally of India, thearch rival of Pakistan.
After a visit to Delhi, Najib flew to Paris to take part in a UN-sponsored conference about the least developed countries.
In Paris he met with the UN Secretary General and other UN officials. He talked to journalists repeating his previous stand on the Afghan issue.
The regime and Moscow media tried to give the impression that Najib was received by foreign minister of France but they only shook hands in a reception. The reported meeting of Najib with other delegations was of the same nature.
The Mujahideen criticized the French government decision to issue a visa to Najib, whom they hold responsible for killing more than a million people. The International Bureau of Afghanistan, a French support group for Afghans, also criticized the visa’s issuance because of Najib’s key role in the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979.
In a speech to his party workers Najib described his visit to Paris a diplomatic success, and even said he was surprised by the affection some Westerners showed him.
The visits to Delhi and Paris took place after a month-long trip to Moscow during which Najib asked for the continuation of Soviet assis-tancetotheregime.
News from Battlefields
From Page (2)
en on September 26 in Adraskan district
•Commander Abdul Aziz fired 20 rockets into the enemy air base at Shindand, setting fire to part of the base. Regime aircraft bombed the Mujahideen-controlled area in retaliation, killing one woman and one child.
•The Mujahideen killed the commander of a security post and captured four soldiers near the city of Herat on September 27. They seized seven guns and one rocket launcher.
Faryab Province
Seven regime troops were killed and four were injured when the Mujahideen attacked their post in Shirin Tagab town on September 12. One Mujahid and three civilians were injured and one civilian was killed by the enemy troops.
Takhar Province
Forty-five enemy soldiers were killed and 24 injured when the Mujahideen attacked their positions near Khwaja Ghar District on September 3. Ten posts were destroyed and 18 soldiers were captured in the operation, which lasted for three days.The Mujahideen seized 24 guns. Two ranking regime officers. Brigadier Abdur Razaq and Mamour Nabi were among those killed. In the fighting a considerable number of SAZA political workers, locally known as Ustaz Ha (Teachers),
were killed.
The Mujahideen from Jami'at, Harakat, Khalis and Sayyaf took part in the operation.
The posts were established some time ago between Taliqan and Khwaja Ghar as a first step to attack Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar, which is under the Mujahideen's control.
Khwaja Ghar is run by a commu nist faction called SAZA. SAZA is in direct contact with Soviets and receives arms and financial support from the Russians.
Against the wishes of Najib, the Soviets send ships loaded with weapons to SAZA from across the Amu River.
Uruzgan Province
Mullah Naqibullah reports that on September 19, three armed militiamen joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at.
Six security posts were captured and 45 soldiers were made prisoners in Terinkoot, the provincial capital of Uruzgan, on September 26. The regime is making extensive use of cluster bombs against the Mujahideen.
Zabul Province
Two regime helicopters were shot down in Qalat, the provincial capital of Zabul, on September 9. Helicopters were trying to bring supplies to the be sieged city. Qalat has been besieged by the Mujahideen for a long time.
Shoora runs Kunduz Province
420 schools
The Education Committee of the Supervisory Council has opened 421 schools for boys and girls, in which 41,000 students study. This was stated in a letter presented to Prof. Mujaddidi during his visit to the North.
The head of the Education Committee of the SC, Sher Jan, told AfghaNews that only 1/4 of the schools of SC are registered with the Education Ministry of the AIG. He said the Education Committee of SC has hired 2027 teachers.
He said the SC has six high schools and six secondary schools. The rest are primary schools. He said the Supervisory Council has opened four girls' schools.
The Mujahideen in Kunduz attacked enemy positions on September 10 with heavy weapons. As a result of the attack, 30 enemy soldiers were killed and 40 were injured. The enemy bombed civilian targets around Kunduz in retaliation, which killed many civilians and destroyed many houses.
The next day, the Mujahideen killed eight soldiers and captured some of them.
Commander Arif Khan reports that the local militia in Kunduz had an armed clash with KHAD units near Kunduz. Seven people were killed from both sides and several were injured. Differences between different armed organizations of the regime have created chaos in those parts of Kunduz controlled by the regime.