AFGHANews Vol.5, No 8, April 15,1989, page
Soviets, regime use SC meeting for propaganda purposes
The UN Security Council meeting to discuss the alleged violation of the Geneva accords by Pakistan was an attempt by the Soviet Union and the communist regime in Kabul to mislead world opinion about the true situation in Afghanistan.
The Security Council meeting on April 12 was demanded by the communist regime of Najibullah and was supported by the Soviet Union, current president of the Security Council.
The meeting was opened by Abdul Wakil, foreign minister of the Kabul regime, who accused Pakistan of interference- in the affairs of Afghanistan and breaching the Geneva Accords.
Iqbal Akhund, representative of the government of Pakistan rejected the allegations.
The demand for the meeting of the Security Council came after an extensive propaganda offensive launched by the Soviets and their puppets in Kabul against the Mujahideen and Pakistan.
When the Mujahideen launched attacks against the city of Jalalabad, Kabul regime and the Soviet Union alleged that the Pakistan army was involved in direct fighting against regime forces.
Pakistan has cooperated with UN observer teams. They have visited the border areas and have been given permission to have a permanent presence in Peshawar and Quetta, the two cities close to the border with Afghanistan.
The allegations of foreign involvement in the war against the regime is an old story. Under the same pretext the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan and continued its aggressive war for more than 9 years.
The Kabul regime has told big lies in the past about the situation in Afghanistan and the rooicause of the~problem. Once they said that the Afghan refugees in the neighboring countries were nomads who travelled back and forth with the change of season.
The call for the Security Council meeting is an attempt to give the impression the regime is a victim of outside aggression. But the war against the regime is fought by Afghans themselves for obvious reasons.
The regime came to power illegally. The present regime is a product of Soviet aggression and an outpost of the Soviet imperialism. It has committed untold crimes against the people of Afghanistan during the Soviet presence, and it continues to do so with the help of Soviet weapons after their withdrawal.
The'first meeting of the Security Council was convened in 1980 after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The Soviet Union vetoed a resolution asking for the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan;
The UN must be careful in dealing with the situation in Afghanistan, which is complicated. Although the regime is a formal member of the UN, it has neither legal status nor does it control most of the land and the majority of people.
On the other hand, the Mujahideen who fight against the communist regime have formed an interim government which is a member of die Organization of the Islamic Conference and is recognized by four countries.
The Mujahideen control 90% of the land and the majority of the population.
Realizing these facts, UN organizations working for Afghanistan deal directly with the Mujahideen despite the fact the Mujahideen government is not a member of UN and the Mujahideen were not a party in signing of the Geneva accords.
^ Foreign aidfor the Mujahideen, military or humanitarian, cannot be considered interference in the affairs of Afghanistan. While the Soviet Union left behind great quantities of arms and ammunition for the regime and sends more by air and
Turn to page {3 )
Shoora
From page (3 )
get them from stores. Shopkeepers give the paper to our contact people as a favor to the cause.
When fighting intensified it was difficult to get paper from Kabul. Attacks against the valley were so intense that it became difficult to continue printing the paper.
"Neda-i-Jehad" became a refugee and then was published from Peshawar. Despite great efforts by its editors, Qanuni and then Sayyed Hamid, it lost its appeal for readers because it became another papers published from exile.
A liberation war is a multidimensional struggle. Cultural and propaganda war is a major part of it. Unfortunately the Resistance parties' work in this field has not been very effective.
The papers published in exile can not show the views of the fighters in the field. The language they use is not understandable by the common man. The stories are dull and the pictures are unattractive. The news is old and exaggerated. Lack of professional writers with close contact with fighting fronts is the main reason for the low quality of publications in exile.
Publishing "Shoora” is an attempt to give people inside objective news and tell them about the Mujahideen's views on different issues.
Conditions for publishing papers inside has improved. Military situation is under control. A group of journalists has moved out of the cities controlled by the regime to help the Mujahideen The Mujahideen's message must reach the people in this critical time of the struggle.
19 killed in Georgia
Nineteen people were killed in clashes between armed troops and demonstrators in Tblisi, capital of Soviet Georgia, on April 9.
About 100,000 people took part in the demonstraion, many of whom demanded secessation from the Soviet Union.
Ethnic unrest has become a source of headache for Goibachov. Making use of the limited freedom offered by Gorbachev, different nationalities demand more freedom.
Soviet foreign minister flew to Tblisi to review the situation.