AFGHANews Vol 6, No 12, June 15,1990, page ©
Children immunized
More than 20,000 children have been immunized against fatal diseases by the Health Committee of the Supervisory Council in Takhar province.
A source of the Health Committee said the mobile teams will continue to immunize the children in other parts of the North-East Zone.
Since the beginning of the war immunization of children against measles, whooping cough and other fatal diseases had stopped, and this is the first attempt by the Mujahideen to protect the precious lives of children in the area.
The source said the Committee also runs a program of children's and mothers' care, which includes provision of food assistance to pregnant women.
The Committee is facing an uphill battle against diarrhea, TB, malaria and other fatal diseases. Besides provision of- preventive medicine, health teams instruct the people about the measures which they should take to protect themselves and their children from diseases.
in Taliqan recently.
The office, which will have the job of propagation of Islamic values and keeping people informed about the progress of Jehad, was opened by Eng. Mohammad Omar, the Deputy Governor of Takhar. Eng. Omar belongs to Harakat Inqlab Islami (Mohammadi group).
Food prices doubled
Prices of wheat, the staple food for Afghans, show a sharp increase in the north of Afghanistan.
Here are the price sof wheat in some areas of the north:
1-	Maimana( Faryab Province)
2000 Afs. per ser*
2-	Other districts of Faryab 5000 Afs. per ser
3-	Balkh 2000 Afs. per ser
4-	Badakhshan1300 Afs. per ser
5-	Keshm district 1000 Afs. per ser
6-	Rustaq (Takhar) 1200 Afs. per ser
7-	Kunduz 950 Afs. per ser
400 fighters trained	The	War	situation,	lack Of rain and
insect pests are the main cause of soar-
A group/of 400 Mujahideen received one month's military training to join the local regiments of the Supervisory Council's army.
Lt. Colonel Abdul Baqi, the commander of training program of the Supervisory . Council, told Hindukush News Agency that the students were taught military tactics and use of different types of weapons in addition to receiving ideological and political training. A group of religious Ulamas and teachers of schools took part in teaching the young cadets.
Abdul Baqi said the students took part in war games after completion of their training, which was highly successful.
ing prices and shortages of food.
♦One ser is equal to 7 Kg.
440 girls attend school
The Education Committee of the SC runs six schools for girls in Taliqan city and Worsaj-Farkhar valley, Hindukush News Agency reported.
A total of 440 girls attend these schools. They are taught by 10 female and six male teachers.
An official of the SC Education committee said Taliqan school has 200 students, Khadijatul Kubra school in Mian Shahr, Worsaj, has 90 students . Martyr Nahid school in Mashtan valley has 30 students, Farkhar school has 90
The students in the training course students and the school in Khanaqa, had come from Baghlan, Takhar, Worsaj has 40 students.
Kunduz and Faryab province.	Most	of	the above schools were
During their training the students were shown video films Mujahideen activities in other parts of Afghanistan.
The SC has regular training programs for its Mujahideen. Financial constraints dbes not allow large scale training programs to be carried out
Guttural office opened
A branch of the. Cultural Committee of the SC has been opened
Unemployment in Central Asia
On 31 October 1989 Pravda gave unemployment statistics for 1986 for a number of Soviet republics: in Azerbaijan unemployment stood at 27.6%, in Turkmenia 18.8%, in Armenia 18.0% and in Kirghizia 16.3%. According to Pravda the total number of jobless in the Soviet Union is expected to reach 15-16 million by the year 2005.	[Central Asia and Caucasus
ChronicleVol.8No.6]
opened at the start of the current aca-about demic year, which began on March 6.
Terrorists kill Prof. Khatibi
Mohammad Zahir Khatibi, 44, a prominent figure of Jami'at Islami, was killed by unknown gunmen in Peshawar on June 2.
Khatibi was the chairman of the council of Laghman office of Jami'at and a professor at Jehad University.
Before becoming a refugee in 1978, he taught as an associated professor at the faculty of Islamic Law of Kabul University. He had graduated from the same faculty .
Khatibi joined the Islamic movement when he was a student of Najmul Madaris religious school in Jalalabad. He chose to go to a religious school because of his family background. His father, Mawlawi Mohammad Jan, was a religious scholar from Laghman, who led Friday prayers in the central mosque of that province.
His murder surprised many who knew Khatibi. He was a soft-spoken person who had gained a reputation for good manners. Prof. Rabbani, the Jami'at leader, dereribed him as an angel in tire garb of a man.
It is not clear who killed Khatibi and why, but the Jami'at leader called it an assassination harried out by die enemies of Jehad.
Recently several prominent Afghans have been killed by unidentified men in Peshawar.
Khatibi was buried In Rahman Baba graveyard outside Peshawar. Several hundred refugees participated in his burial ceremony. .
A prayer meeting was held at Jami'at headquarters in Chamkani, outside Peshawar, on June 4. A large num-ber of Afghans including some leaders of resistance parties participated in the Meeting.
. V,
US

(Please sendyour donations to the following account numSer:
7ESHWD Account 735-37 (Habib (Bank.Ltd.
‘Iehkgl ‘Bala, (Peshawar (Pakistan