AFGHANews Vol 8, No 10 & 11, June 1, 1992, page @
"\
Editorial
—
Elections sole path to peace
The most important tasks facing the Islamic state of Afghanistan are consolidation of the Islamic government and provision of security in the country.
The Soviet invasion devastated Afghanistan's economy, society, culture and political system. Government control over the affairs of the country is nominal. Afghanistan is ruled by a patchwork of different Mujahideen groups.
To lead Afghanistan towards peace and guarantee the protection of the citizenry's lives, property and honor, the Mujahideen leaders must struggle to restore a strong government.
Areas outside Kabul are generally peaceful, because different Mujahideen groups developed local administrations during the years of Jehad which are able to maintain security. The situation in Kabul is an exception. All the Mujahideen' groups have brought a large number of their armed men to the city.
The Supervisory Council, headed by Ahmad Shah Masood, had planned a peaceful transfer of power from the former regime to the Mujahideen. The com-jj manders of the vast majority of the armed forces guarding Kabul were ready to j submit (o the Mujahideen. Their units were to continue their duties, for the time j being, securing the lives and property of the peopleof Kabul under Mujahideen command.
Demobilization and reorganization, under a new Islamic order, could have proceeded step by step. Armed groups of Mujahideen, who vary greatly in their levels of training and discipline, were not to enter the city. Most important, all Mujahideen leaders agreed to this plan ~ with the exception of one.
Hundreds of armed members of the Hezb Islami of Gulbuddin Hikmatyar -with the complicity of a minority of hardline communist officers and officials in the ministries of Defense and the-Interior - infiltrated the city in a naked grab for absolute control.
This disrupted the rings of security posts surrounding the city, for many troops, finding themselves bypassed and irrelevant, simply gave up and went home. This paved the way for the entry into Kabul of thousands of armed Mujahideen of different groups from all directions. Some of these groups lack discipline.
The presence of too many armed Mujahideen under too many commanders endangers the peace and stability of the capital. The Security Commission has decided to form combined security forces from the Mujahideen of different groups and to evacuate armed Mujahideen from the city. But these plans have not been carried out due both to some parties' refusal to cooperate and the lack of control by some parties over their Mujahideen.
Some members of the former regime, along with criminals freed from jail at the same time as political prisoners, have exploited the confusion and armed themselves. They threaten the Islamic government and the citizens of Kabul.
Political understanding between the Mujahideen parties is the key to providing security for the people of Kabul. It is also vital for consolidation of the new government and for reconstruction. To this end, Ahmad Shah Masood has signed an agreement with Hikmatyar to avoid repeating the unhappy events prompted by Hezb immediately after the fall of the communist regime.
In order to solve these issues, the agreement signed by the Mujahideen parties on the modalities for transfer of power must be implemented faithfully. Talk of prolonging the term of office of Prof. Mujaddidi and holding a traditional Loya Jirga could destabilize the situation further.
The final goal of the interim government should be to give the people of Afghanistan a chance to vote as soon as possible.
Only a government which comes to power through the people's verdict will have legitimacy. Only a government of popular choice will have the power to
To page (5)
UN continues to host the ousted dictator
Najib, the head of the communist regime, went into hiding in one of the UN offices in Kabul after an abortive attempt to leave the country. He is still the guest of the world body.
His brother, his personal secretary and bodyguard are with him, along with one woman and two children. It is said that they pass their time by watching TV. Najib is given permission by the UN to contact his wife in India through a satellite telephone.
The UN special envoy Benon Sevan tried to help Najib escape to India on April 16 after the Mujahideen captured Bagram air base, 40 kilometers north of the capital. The attempt failed when security forces at the airport refused to allow the UN plane to leave with the fallen dictator on board.
Die UN envoy justify his attempt to rescue Najib on the grounds that he had given him assurance of safe exit as part of a political solution under the UN auspices. The UN peace plan collapsed during its final stages when the Mujahideen captured Charikar and Bagram Air Base.
The Mujahideen have forgiven other members of the former regime. But some Mujahideen argue that the general amnesty announced by the Islamic government does not apply to Najib, who resisted the Mujahideen till the last day of his rule.
Iranian envoy meets leaders
Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, president of the Leadership Council, met with the Iranian special envoy, Mir Mahmoud Mosavi on May 18. The two leaders discussed developments after the victory of the Mujahideen. Prof. Rabbani asked for the assistance of the Islamic Republic of Iran in the reconstruction of devastated Afghanistan.
Mosavi also met other Afghan leaders. Iran has recognized the Islamic government in Kabul, but has asked for just treatment of all ethnic and religious groups in the country.
Hezb Wahdat, which has close ties with Iran, has not participated in the government It demands that one-fourth of the cabinet seats should be allocated k) that party. Hezb Wahdat claims to represent the Shia community and insists that Shias form more than 25 percent of the population of Afghanistan.