AFGHANews Vol6, No 13, July 1,1990, page ©
Prof. Rabbani visits Iran
Jami'at	leader,
Burhanuddin Rabbani, paid a three-day visit to Tehran at the invitation of the foreign minister of the Islamic Republic, Dr. Welayati.
Prof. Rabbani and Dr. Welayati discussed the latest situation in Afghanistan and exchanged views about a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
Iran supports the struggle of Afghans for the right of self-determination. It also serve as the host of about two million Afghan refugees.
Iran has shown interest in solving the problem through holding elections. The Mujahideen oppose the participation of communists in elections. They consider communists participation as submission to the national reconciliation program of the regime.
Iran wants a greater role for the UN in finding a political solution to the problem. Recently, Dr. Welayati discussed the Afghan problem with Pakistan officials, including Prime Minister Bhutto.
US envoy informs Rabbani about last summit
US special envoy to the Afghan resistance, Peter Tomsen, met with Prof. Rabbani in Jami'at's Political Office on June 23.
Tomsen briefed Rabbani about the Washington summit where Afghanistan was discussed at length between the superpowers. The two sides also discussed the political and humanitarian aspects of the problem. Tomsen met earlier with AIG President, Prof. Sebghatullah Mujahiddidi.
Tomsen has come to Pakistan at a time when the AIG is discussing election plans with a delegation of Afghans from the West. A delegation from the Iran-based parties also met in Peshawar to discuss the issue of forming a representative government of the resistance.
The second refund of commanders meetings, a Shura, is being held in Paktia, to bring unity between the Mujahideen.
Communism:
The enemy of God, man and nature
Habibur Rahman £o
Communism waged a war against God, man and. nature but lost it in all the three fronts.
The enmity of communism to God and religion is not a secret. Communism, founded on the philosophy of dialectic materialism, defies the existence of God and ridicules religious practice.
Communists attempt to intimidate all believers in God from religious services. Humiliation of religions books, destruction of worship places, anti-religious propaganda and persecution of believers have taken place in every country run by communists.
Despite it's use of force over several decades, the communists could not win the unholy war against God and religion. Uprisings in East Europe, Soviet Union, China and the rest of the world against communism have a strong religious element to them.
Religion is winning the war slowly. As the offices of communist parties are ransacked by angry people, and communist parties change their name to avoid popular reactions, places of worship are gaining life. Momentum grows as more people practice their faith.
Communism has been the source of many tragedies for the human race. It preaches justice and equality for all, yet when power is imposed, the worst type of dictatorship automatically forms. Communists have been responsible for numerous crimes against humanity in the Soviet Union, China, East Europe, Vietnam, Afghanistan,
Cambodia, and other places they have ruled.
The discovery of mass grave in Soviet Union, the plight of the Vietnamese boat people, and the tragedy of Afghanistan are ample illustrations of the enmity of communism against humanity.
Afghanistan is an excellent case-in-point. A small group of local communist seize power through military coup. When opposed by the people the Soviet army intervened to support the Marxist revolution in Kabul.
In ten years of war more than a million people were killed, 75 percent of the country has been destroyed and one third of its population became refugees.
It is not surprising to see millions of people rise against communism and want to get ride themselves of it. Despite attempts at prolonging then-rule under an alias, they are loosing the war against man.
Nature also suffers from communist rule. A recent meeting of the ministers of East and West Europe revealed the pollution in Eastern Europe to be a serious environmental threat.
Communist regimes exploit mineral resources and built factories, ignoring the effects on environment and people.
Citizens lack freedom to protest, and governments won’t answerable to its people. Communist regimes control the media, preventing the outside world from knowing about the danger they posed to the environment.
At the termination of absolute Communist rule in Eastern Europe, more information was available to the free world about die damages inflicted by hazardous waste, and the grave consequence to our planet incurred through die irresponsible activities of the past Communist regimes.
-----------------------
☆ (I
zi/ishes a happy
‘Eid-uC-ftdha
to its Muslim readers
