HFBHflN tCUS VOL.Ill, NO.14, 15/?/ 190? PflGE 6
who sire struggling for the freedom of their country. At the end of the meeting the delegation saw the exhibition in which pieces of different types of Soviet bombs and weapons used against the people of Afghanistan is is displayed. The members of the delegation were impressed by the exhibition and signed their feelings in the visitors
book.
The delegation were accompanied by three French journalists arid a diplomat from the
french mission in Islamabad.
    PROF RABBANI’S LETTER TO OIC GENERAL SECRETARY
                                                 Peshawar
                                                 2/7/198?
S. Sharafuddin Pirzada General Secretary Organisation of Islamic Conference
Dear brother Assalamu Alaikum wa Rahmatullah
The tragedy of the people of Afghanisten still continues. Every day, more people are Killed, maimed or driven out of their country Besides the military operation which is an ever-escalating phenomenon, Soviet leaders have started a sophisticated political war against Afghans to cover their atrocities and minimize the political cost of their
aggression.
The resolution passed by 0.1.C on different occasions has been ignored by the Soviets. In the past few months we have been a witness to the Soviets' increased efforts for misleading the Muslim world by giving false hopes for a political solution to Afghan issue in the near future In fact we see the opposite of vhat they say On one hand, they have increased the level of their military activities, on the other hand they want to isolate Mujahideen and win support for the puppet regime which they instelled in Kabul and protect with 150,000 troops. Along these lines, the Soviets have been able to convince the Iraq regime to re-new its economic ties with the puppet regime in Kabul and prime minister of the puppet regime paid an official visit to Baghdad in June.
The Afghan nation condemns Baghdad regime's decision vhich grossly violates ell the resolutions passed by 0.1 C on diff erent occasions By this action the Iraqi government stood in the side of the murderers of Muslims and took side with aggressors
I ask your excellency to inform the Iraqi government about the feelings of Afghan Muiahid nation towards their late decision of expending cooperation with the puppet regime. Ve also ask O.I.C to take appropriate measures against the Iraqi regime for violating the resolutions of O.I.C which clearly ask from the member states to refrain from having contacts with the puppet regime in Kabul
ttfe continue our just struggle against all odds, but it is the religious responsibility of all Muslims to support us in our efforts for freedom of Islamic Afghanistan
Vith the best regards.
                                                 Yours in Islam Prof. BJtabbani Ameer
                                                 Jamiat Islami Afghanistan.