AFGHANews Vol7, No 21, November 1,1991, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Abdur Rasool
Abdur Rasool, 32, is a commander of Jami'at in Wardooj Valley of Baharak sub-District. He was a farmer before joining Sayyed Najmuddin in 1985.
He participated in Xuran operation as a group commander in 1987. He led a group of 100 Mujahideen in the lighting which resulted in the liberation of Zebak 1 in 1988. He commanded 150 men in the attack on Zebak this Summer and in the liberation of Eshkashim, he was leading 200 Mujahideen.
When commander Najmuddin was asked to name some of his brave commanders, he described Abdur Rasool as
a commander who has returned successful from every mission that he has been assigned.
Despite his military achievements. Commander Rasool is humble person who lives a simple life.
He was bom in Bashend, a village in the upper parts of Wardooj Valley. He has seen no formal eduction but has learned about the basics of Islam in the mosque school of his village.
Afghan Jehad has created many talented local leaders. Commander Rasool is one of such leaders who have earned respect of his people by fighting Jehad against the Soviets and their puppets.
Cmdiv Mohammad Akram
Mohammad Akram, 29, is the Deputy Commander of Taliqan Battalion of the Supervisory Council. He took active part in fighting for the liberation of Khwaja Ghar.
Commander Akram was one of the local Jami'at commanders who operated around Taliqan during the Soviet occupation of the city. They attacked the enemy convoys on the road to Badakhshan. He took part in liberation of Taliqan in 1988 and Shahr-i-Burzurg operation in 1990.
Before establishing himself in Taliqan, he operated, like other commanders of the cento1 of Takhar, from a mountain base in Farkhar. When the Mujahideen gained strength, he moved close to the city. He was assisted in his training and organizational work by Dad Allah, a young officer from Panjshir, sent by Masood to help the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Takhar.
Akram Khan comes from a wealthy family. His grandfather, Qochqar Khan had moved from Panjshir and settled in Khetayan, a village outside Taliqan. His father, Hussain Khan, was a police officer who had served as the provincial chief of police hi many parts of Afghanistan.
Akram Khan was bom in Aybak, Samangan Province, and went to school in Kabul up to the fifth grade. After the retirement of his father, he continued his studies in Taliqan .
He was a student of high school when he became involved in struggle against the communists. He was guided and encouraged by Sayyed Abdullah Khan, a teacher mid a member of the Islamic Movement He finished school in 1979 with good grades.
Akram's father was imprisoned by communists two months after the April coup of 1978 because they considered him as the potential enemy of the system. He was released after the Soviet invasion when Babrak Karmal announced a general amnesty to gain popularity. His brother, Mohammad Tariq, a police officer, was killed by die communists some months after the coup.
He joined the armed struggle after finishing school He worked with Dr. Sayyed Hussain and Commander Iqbal at the start but later formed his own group
He spent six month along with ten of his Mujahideen in Panjshir in 1981. They received military training which was instructed by Commander Masood. He came to Peshawar to get weapons from Jami'at Islami. He returned to Takhar with some weapons to continue struggle against die Soviets.
Akram Khan attended an officers training course in the upper part of Worsaj Valley in 1988. This class was taught by Commander Masood.
Akram Khan can be described as a young leader who mixes humbleness with piety. He is fond of reading books and has a small library of 200 books.
He is married and has two children.
Ihief of the fDPA, ^skilledptn] October 21 in Cirdez in a rocket at-lack by the Mgjaliidetp^a regime [source reported^li wa$;|qriedJwth pull military honor. Najibuilah a|end-ied his funeral. He was promoted a>
SSI •	.-.	•	:Tv / •. . 7.:
[the rank of lieutenant General In services to dj|
regime.
■ng

of the resistance, left for [Saudi [Arabia oh October 15 to plrfonn klmra. The expenses of their trip will
The Kabul regime has allowed
private traders to import food and
I in the country, A trader has stud that! [he has struck a deal for the purchase] of 100,000 tons of fuel from die [Soviet Republic of Turkmenistan.] I Kabul has been facing critical food! and fuel shortages after the abortive i | coup in Moscow,	jral
,..4	'; if
| Jami'at leader discussed die situ-1 [ation in Afghanistan with Irani I Ambassador to Pakistan on October] 15 in Islamabad.
| Ambassador Javad Mansoor! I fold prof. Rabbani that bis country [was against foreign intervention in I Afghanistan.	■
I	IM	■
ItaSaa Senator Gualio Orlando
told the Italian delation foal they] could not return to Afghanistan as long as the Kabul regime was I
Orlando underscored the need! for unity amongst the Afghan refill gees for the achievement of their] cherished goal. He said that his couni try would continue its support tUi iim peaceful settlement ofthejyjp