AFGHANews Vol 6, No 24, December 15,1990, page Q
waning of international interest, die political inactivity of the resistance was very harmful. The foreign ministry of the AIG has remained inactive since Hikmatyar left the AIG one year ago.
To earn the support of the field com-, manders. Prof. Mujaddidi visited Takhar, Herat and Paktia but in the absence of a comprehensive political plan these efforts cannot help much.
Holding elections for a representative assembly was a topic on die agenda of the AIG. Finally the AIG, Hezb and some mi-Shia aid Sunni parties agreed on an election formula and sent delegations to hold elections in die liberated areas. The Wahdat party based in Tehran and die Kabul regime are not involved in the process, If die election process is completed successfully, it could have a positive effect on the political situation.
Continued political and military stalemates gave a chance for the former king to become more active. Recently he proposed a formula for the formation of Loya Jirga (council of elders). The Kabul regime's reaction towards this formula has been positive but die major Mujahideen parties oppose the involvement of Zahir Shah in any political process. They think involvement of die former king will open the way for his return, something that they are opposed to.
The agreement signed between Hezb and Jami'at to solve their differences peacefully was a positive step having a good impact on Jehad. Relations between the two major parties were very tense in the past preventing any cooperation in the battlefield. According to the agreement each party which represents the majority of the people in a district should rule that district and die minority party should accept its leadership.
The agreement, however, worried some Mujahideen parties of the so-called fundamentalists alliance. The Kabul regime acted prompdy to exploit this worry by going to Geneva and meeting with one of the moderate Mujahideen leaders. Jami'at denies this charge and says dial the agreement is not directed against other Mujahideen
The Regime's National Reconciliation policy has failed. No major commander or tribal leader has joined die regime. The return of some refugees is not die sign of acceptance of the regime by them. Most of them return to the liberated areas.
Uncertainty about the future frightens every member of the PDPA. Changes in Eastern Europe and the crises in the Soviet Union are demoralizing news for communists in Kabul.
The introduction of a parliamentary multi-party system is not taken serious at home and the un-Islamic reputation of the regime is a source of permanent trouble for it-
The Kabul regime was more active in the political field man the Mujahideen. It benefited a lot from easing tension between East and West. The re-opening of the French and Italian embassies passed a strong signal to the Kabul regime that1 it was coming out of a long isolation.
The Kabul regime used the Western media very effectively to promote its views on the situation. Civilian casualties caused by Mujahideen rockets gave it an effective weapon to defame the resistance in the eyes of those who sympathized with it and praised the Mujahideen's heroic struggle against the Soviet invaders.
Najib manipulated the UN and ICRC programmes to paint a humane face for itself. Li die face of the confused policy of die Mujahideen, this tactic helped the regime a great deal. The recent UN report on the human rights situation in Afghanistan is very positive towards the Kabul regime.
What impresses the Westerners about die Kabul regime is the western way of life
it follows. The smart suits for men and the short skirts of the girls in Kabul has more appeal to Western tastes than the beard of the Mujahid and long dress of the refugee women. The Kabul regime has a government structure and speaks with one voice, something that the Mujahideen do not have. In short, the regime has been more successful in its political work abroad than at home.
After (he Soviet troops withdrawal, attention from Afghanistan shifted towards other problems. Less attention meant less support for die Afghan struggle which Was labeled a civil war. Decrease in world attention was not a blow to the Kabul regime which receives aid from the Soviet Union. Moscow remained committed to Najib's support
The Soviet Union and the United States continued their talks on Afghanistan. The United States gave several concessions in the talks. The US accepted the participation of Najib in elections. It also dropped its demand of the transfer of power from Najib to the Mujahideen.
They have agreed that an interim administration should be formed and some of the powers of the regime should be transferred to it. This administration should hold elections under the auspices of the UN. The key question is how much of the power of Najib will be transferred to the transitional administration to make sure that the election held is fair and free. The Kabul regime has accepted the plan of holding elections but the Mujahideen have said they would not take part in any election with the regime. The two sides are also inching towards ^an agreement for an arms embargo for the two sides in the conflict
The people of Afghanistan continued to suffer from the economic, situation in the country. Prices of essential commodities increased dramatically. The Kabul regime flooded the market with Afghan currency causing the prices to go up.. The Regime provides subsidized food to its the army personnel, party men and government officials., the rest of the population have lost their purchasing ability.
Agricultural production was low due to lack of rain and the existence of agricultural diseases. The government economic policy has forced many people to join the militia forces. The merchants in the towns and transporters in the liberated areas make good money.
The Mujahideen in some areas are busy in the reconstruction of the country and rebuilding the economy. Schools, hospitals, irrigation channels and roads are built with the financial help of humanitarian organizations.
In some areas the law and order situation is ideal and die local government runs smoothly with the help of the local population.
Because of continued fighting more people were kOIed. While the Western media reported civilian casualties in Kabul, the plight of the victims of the regime's aerial bombing, SCUD missiles and land mines planted by the Soviets were not reported properly. Thousands of political prisoners remained in the custody of the Kabul regime, living in harsh conditions.
The UN humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan has been a controversial issue. The Kabul and UNOCA (UN organization for Construction of Afghanistan under Sadruddin Agha Khan) claim that the program is running well. The Mujahideen criticize the UN program because it benefits the Kabul regime politically and financially. The UN officials involved in the programme kept little contact with the Mujahideen parties and used Kabul as their main operational base. They also tried to use humanitarian assistance to promote a political settlement. The Agha Khan's remarks about die Mujahideens* non-
compromising attitude made the resistance very angry. The news of his removal from his post as the Coordinator has been a source of joy for the Mujahideen and bad news for. the Kabul regime and its Ismailia allies.
The Mujahideen have reached a critical stage in their struggle. They have a good cause and popular support They control strategic territories and have a rich experience in war. What has prevented their final victory is the lack of a single high command; absence of a workable military strategy and lack of unity among the fighting fronts. The Council of Commanders has set the stage for die creation of an high command; the evolution of * Reasonable strategy and the coordinatkm oF railitary actions.
Outside support for the Mujahideen is waning and pressure for a compromise so lution is increasing. These two developments need the close attention of the Mujahideen.
The years of 1989 and 1990 were not used by die Mujahideen in the best way. They have to prepare for a much better job in 1991, if they want an end to the long ordeal of the Afghan people. The Kabul regime has no hope of winning the war. It has survived because the Mujahideen failed to get their act together. The crises -in the Soviet Union; die sole supporter of die communist regime in Kabul, must be ex ploited to get rid of a communist regime imposed by the Red Army.
BRIEFS
Rabbahl briefed
Tomseo, US special envoy to Hie
onDecetnberlSL they discuss the Afghanistan and current U$-U$$R
General dies