AFGHANews Vol7, Noll, June 1,1991, page <s)
Farah Province sitrep
Abu Panah
I and a colleague of mine left ’eshawar on January 10, 1991 or Farah Province to survey the tumanitarian projects run by a Peshawar-based relief organization. We decided to go to Rabat a point where Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan borders meet) and then pass through Iran to Farah. There is a market in Rabat which controlled by Hezb Islami Hikmatyar). The commander of Hezb Islami in Rabat, Sufi Latif, is from Herat. Food, blanket and fuel oil are nought from Iran to Rabat These goods are taken by private merchants Helmand, Nimroz and Farah Province where they are sold in the liberated and government-controlled are-Trade of gasoline is a profitable business. Government bases buy their needed oil from this market through middlemen. Sale of weapons and ammunition is free in Rabat.
Sufi Latif introduced us to another Mujahideen commander, Maulawi Yahya, who promised to help us to pass through Iran. Maulawi Yahya was originally a commander of Hezb Islami i Hikmatyar). He has established a close link with Iranians who provide him with assistance in return for his services to fight against the drug dealers along the border. He took us to Zahidan, Iran, and arranged to get a letter from Iranian authorities allowing us to go to Shamsabad refugee camp in Khurasan Province bordering Fahah.
We remained in this refugee camp for one week. Refugees -in the camp lived in dome-shaped mud houses which have been built by themselves on the style of their houses in Afghanistan. There is a market of about 500 shops in the camp, run by the refugee. The camp seemed well organized. Water is brought by tankers and health clinics are run by Iranian Red Crescent Society. Iranians paid attention to the health of the refugees. The camp was regularly spread from air. Afghans have been trained to run the clinics. There are schools in the camp, some run by Iranians but the majority by the Mujahideen organizations. Jami'at was very active in this field.
Refugees buy their food at subsidized prices. Refugees are given par-mission by Iranian authorities to work in the towns to earn their living. Each commander is allowed to send 20 to 30 of his men for work at one time. When they return others are allowed to go. Refugees did not seem ready to return
to Afghanistan before a settlement and return of peace to Afghanistan.
From border, we entered Lash-Juwain District Our guide was from Harakat Inqilab. After driving for half an hour, we reached Harakat’s base. The district was free and its cento* was controlled by Jami'at Islami. Only five percent of the pre-war population of Lash Juwain live in the district the rest live as refugees in Iran. The district was badly hit by the late floods. Most of the gardens and farms were flooded and road link with other parts of the province was cut. Lash Juwain is a transit point from where food and fuel, brought from Iran, are taken to many areas in the neighboring provinces. I saw a health clinic run by the Mujahideen in Lash Juwain.
We visited Qala Kah District which is controlled by the Mujahideen. Most of the people of this district live as refugees in Iran. Senator Sher Ahmad is Jami'at's commando* in Qala Kah.
In the neighboring Anardarah District, where the regime has no presence, there was tension between the Mujahideen. belonging to Jami'at and Khalis. The problem had a tribal nature. Ulama and tribal elders had succeeded in restoing peace between them.
Most of the people of Anardarah lived in the area. There was a big market ki Anardara where fuel oil, food, fertilizer and other goods were brought from Iran and sold to merchants from Shindand and other parts of Helmand. Wool and carpets were taken from Afghanistan to Iran. There were two clinics in Anardara.
We visited Shindand District which is partially controlled by the Kabul regime. Herat-Shindand road is the main target of the Mujahideen's attacks. They also attack the air base in Shindand. Regime fires rockets on villages controlled by the Mujahideen. People living in the areas controlled by the Kabul regime, came to the
District. It is an interesting place with many springs and grazing fields. Jami'at is the majority party in Purchaman. There was a clinic in this district and the Mujahideen had opened schools for children. Prices of food commodities were very high because trucks can go to Purchaman only during summer. The road is blocked in winter due to cold climate and poor road conditions
We stayed two nights in Gulistan District Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) is the majority party in Gulistan, but its two commandos cannot get along with each other. They had tribal differences. Most the people of Gulistan had become refugees.
In Bakwa District few people lived. The majority of its people woe living in refugees camps in ban. Bakwa agriculture depends on undo-ground water. During the rule of Daud, tube-wells were dug and water was pumped out of wells by diesel pumps. But now the system has stopped woik-ing. In Gulistan and Bakwa poppy was grown
Raees Abdul Wahid, Jami'at commander in Baghran District of the neighboring Helmand Province, had set up a new base in Bakwa to block the Herat-Kandahar road in the face of the regime convoys bringing supplies to Helmand and Kandahar. No regime convoy had passed the area since the establishment of the new base.
All along the way the security was good, except in Bakwa district where two armed groups who claimed to belong to Harakat Inqilab (Mohammadi) robbed people. Local people thought that they were KHAD agents trying to defame the Mujahideen.
The Kabul regime controls the pro-. vincial capital of the province.
Jehad politics in Helmand is greatly affected by tribal considerations. Ordinary people try to find a connection between every good thing to their
Mujahideen clinic for treatment Trucks own tribe. For example, they admired moved between the Shindand town, under control of the regime, and liboated areas.The Mujahideen did not allow the local people to visit the town.
Enough people lived in Shindand.
All parties are present there and they are united. We saw commanders from Jami'at Khalis, Harakat and Hezb together.
Passing through Khak-i-Safid and Balabolouk, we saw the presence of the Kabul regime in the center of Balabolouk only.
We stayed one week in Purchaman
Commander Masood but thought that such a brave man must have some connection to their tribe; and in the first days of Gulf crises when Saddam Husain had emerged as hero challang ing a superpower, the mot from Nooizoy tribe in Farah were saying that Saddam must have been from Nooizoy tribe.
After three and half months we reached the border of Pakistan. A considerable amount of time was wasted because of road blocks caused floods.
by