AFGHANews Vol6, No 16, August 15,1990, page
Editorial
Afghan Mujahideen condemn Iraq's occupation of Kuwait
Iraq's invasion of Kuwait is an open aggression which violates International law and creates many problems for the Muslim world and for the rest of the international community.
Afghans are opposed to this aggression because they fully understand the implication of such a move on the people of Kuwait, region and world as a whole.
There are similarities between the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979 and the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in 1990. Afghanistan and Kuwait were attacked by their powerful neighbors. In both cases the invading powers claimed that they were invited by the governments which, did not exist at the time of the invasion. The Soviet Union and Iraq installed their puppet regimes after the occupation to give the invasion a legal color.
International reaction in the case of Afghanistan was not as strong as in the case of Kuwait. The UN economic sanctions against Iraq and the formation of a multi-national force to prevent it from invading Saudi Arabia and other Gulf States could be contrasted with the steps taken against the Soviet Union because of its invasion of Afghanistan. Soviet Union action was condemned by the UN General Assembly and OIC but that country was never named in any of the resolutions passed by the international bodies.
The sanctions imposed on the Soviet Union was limited by grain embargo by the Carter administration which was lifted by Reagan and partial boycott of Moscow Olympic games.
Saddam Husain might have been surprised by die strong international reactions against his invasion of Kuwait When he invaded Iran ten years ago, he was not only not condemned but was helped in militarily and economically to win the war against Iran.
Saddam enjoyed the support of his Arab brothers, the West and the communist block in the war he started against the Islamic Republic. As a result of the generous support he receive, he emerged as the strongest military power in the Middle-East
Ironically Kuwait provided tremendous amount of economic support to Saddam during the Gulf War. Saddam was not grateful to the people who supported him. He has shown that he does not hesitate to use every means to achieve his aim in domestic and international dealings.
Saddam runs Iraq with an iron fist He does not tolerate criticism or political dissention. He is the only leader in the world which has used chemical weapons against his own people. The only person who has a similarity with Saddam is the ruler of Kabul, Najibullah.
The behavior of some Arab countries towards the invasion of an Arab country is deplorable. Some so-called radical Arab countries and the PLO failed to condemn the invasion. This eliminated the chance of any solution of the crises by Arab themselves. Saudi Government was forced to ask for a multi-national force to be stationed in that country, a defensive measure against the immanent Iraqi threat '
The occupation of Kuwait ended the economic assistance that country provided to a lot of developing countries in Asia and Africa. It drew the attention away from the Palestinian cause and created a rift in the rank of Arabs. The Palestinian movement will suffer because of its failure to condemn Iraq invasion of an Islamic and Arab country which had been giving support to if. This is not the first time that Arafat has taken such an attitude. He did not condemn the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and established close relations with the regime of Najibullah which was imposed by the Soviet Army.
Turn to page 7
"Scars of War" is the title of a documentary about the outcome of ten years of war in Afghanistan. This two hour film. The Song of War (Part One) and The Time for Weeping (Party Two), has just come out on the screens. It’s the fruit of one year's efforts by two French journalists, Frederic Laffont and Christophe de Ponfilly. The first team led by Laffont went to Moscow, Minsk, Tashkent and Kabul. The second team headed by de Ponfilly went to the liberated zones in Afghanistan and to Peshawar, Pakistan.
This documentary tells the story of die men involved on both sides of the conflict The Afghans and die Soviets talk to the reporters about their personal experiences in the war. For the Soviet citizens it was a needless war but for Afghans a holy war in defense of their country. Afghans lost more than one million people in die war. The Soviet losts at least 15,000 soldiers
The film encourages the viewer not to satify himself (herself) with a simple denunciation of die nonsense war waged by die Soviets, but to think deeper about its effect on the poeple involved. It invites us to see, hear and discover die strange transformations of people connected with the war. With such a theme one can discern how the Afghan and Soviet societies will be transformed.
The documentary is filmed by capable cameramen using professional equipment Beyond the current event, the "Scars of War" constitutes a chapter of Afghan his tory. The history of Afghans has seen many wars but there is no record of the events of the invasions by Alexander the Great 330-326 B.C; Gengis Khan in 1221-1222 and the British in 1838-1842, 1878-1880 and 1919.
The documentary has already been broacasted on Seventh Channel of French TV in June. It will be shown in August by Switzerland TV. and by third channel of the Fench TV in October.
■ " Scars of War " will also be the name of a book published by Robert Laffont in October.
This picture has been produced in French language but has been translated into English, Persian and Russian. It will be translated into Pashtoo and Arabic soon.
The documentary is presented by INTERSCOOP,die first press agency in Europe established to make documentary films about Afghansitan during the war. It produced a "A Valley against an Empire in 1984, "So far away from Moscow" in 1986 and "Massoud, Portrait of an Afghan Leader" in 1987.