AFGHANews Vol7, No 9, May 1,1991, page ©
April 27 marked the 13th anniversary of the communist coup in Kabul. This coup, which took place with the encouragement of the Soviet Union, opened a tragic chapter in the history of Afghanistan.
The first two years of the communist rule saw an unprecedented dictatorship during which all sectors of society came under attack. Thousands of people were killed or jailed. This reign of terror was unleashed by People's Democratic Party (PDPA) which had been formed in 1965 on the model of the Soviet Communist Party.
The PDPA was allowed by Zahir Shah to operate in return for Soviet economic and military aid. This aid was used by Moscow to penetrate the Afghan Army, educational institutions and the country's economic system.
. The 1973 Daud coup, implemented with the help of the communist officers, was the first stage towards complete takeover by the communists. When Daud became worried about the ambitions of the communists and wanted to review their position, he was
No decrease in aid to Kabul
The Soviet Union will not decrease the level of its economic assistance to the Kabul regime in 1991, Radio Moscow reported.
This was stated by a member of Soviet-Kabul	Economic
Commission, which visited Kabul at the beginning of April.
In addition to normal economic assistance, Moscow will give 210 million rubles to Kabul as a part of Soviet assistance through the UN.
The Soviet Union has also agreed to build power transmission lines between	Turkmenistan
Republic and Herat city to provide Herat with electricity.
overthrown by his army, which had been infiltrated by the Soviet-trained
officers.
The people of Afghanistan did not approve of the communist revolution, and opposed however they could. The harsh manner in which the communists supressed active and potential enemies convinced many Afghans that armed struggle was their only , defense against the regime. Revolt spread rapidly all over Afghanistan.
The Soviets, alarmed by the Mujahideen's quick successes, invaded Afghanistan on December 27, 1979 to save the puppet government. After almost a decade of involvement, they left Afghanistan on February 15, 1989 without achieving their objective.
, The Soviet intervention caused five million Afghans to take refuge in neighboring countries; one and a half million were killed, and 75 percent of the country was destroyed.
Two years have passed since the Soviet troop withdrawal, but the PDPA. is still in control of Kabul and some other cities.
It is a tragedy that after suffering for such a long time, the Mujahideen have not been able to replace the Kabul regime with a government acceptable to the majority of Afghans.
Most Afghans are not ready to deal with the Kabul regime. They hold it responsible for the huge tragedy of the past decade.
The Soviet Union is still the main player in the Afghan conflict because it is preventing Afghans from exercising their right of self-determination, by trying to keep in power the Najib regime, brought to power by the Red Army.
But the massive Soviet economic and military support will not make Najib and his friends in the PDPA acceptable to the Afghan people. The supply of SCUD missiles and other weapons of mass destruction delays the victory of Afghan people, but cannot prevent it The PDPA remains a symbol of the Soviet intervention It must go in order to make Afghanistan a truly independent state. The Mujahideen are determined to continue their struggle to achieve that noble aim.
| Several hundred sacked employees of the Health Ministry of the [Afghan Interim Govemment(ATG) Jstaged a demonstration on April 11 to protest against the decision of that j ministry. Financial problems forced ithe AIG to reduce the number of its
. I
Hie president of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG), who left
i * v. ix W.
,amabad:;lctt;.i;:§?udi Arabia th an AIG delegation on April 12, relumed to Peshawar. The members of die AIG: entourage included Sayycd Ahmad Gailamjiead of N1FA, MauJaiv Mohammad Yunus Khalis, leader of Hezb Islami and Maulawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, the leader of Harakat Inqitab Islami. These leaders had sent about 300 Mujahideen to Saudi Arabia to take part m the war against Iraq.
Richar Hoagland, the former Director of the American Center in Peshawar, has been appointed deputy of the American special envoy to the Afghan resistance.
Hog]and has been working as'a g&T&bsl in the, estate |pepartinent«tm» 1989, He prepared daily reports about the situation in Afghanistan and Pakistan for Secretary James Baker and other ranking officials in die White House.
ill
Fiver Afghan refugees wore killed when the vehicle carrying them fell into a ravine near Prshin, 'Baluchistan,5 ran
were gunned
[men on the oat-1
^PP^Ontj was brother of
down by unknown
MiHwl
The victims-were travelling in a van when they were attacked with automatic weapons. One |pon escaped
....- .*•# .. -
Soviet Union will provide 50
MIDIA reported. The types of fight-pis ate not; known, butcjley me believed to w among the most up-to-
00:
its air force to defend itself against