AFGHANews Vol 6, No 3, February 1,1990, page ©
Ranking US official discusses Afghan situation with AIG
The US Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, Robert M. Kimmitt, visited the region to assess the situation in Afghanistan prior to Foreign Secretary Baker's trip to Moscow in February.
Mr. Kimmitt visited Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and India and discussed the Afghan situation with leaders of those countries.
Prior to Mr. Kimmitt’s trip the regional media speculated about a possible change in the American position regarding Afghanistan.
During his two-day visit to Pakistan (January 17-18) he met with President Ghulam Ishaq Khan , Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, Foreign Minister Yaqub Khan and army chief of staff General Mirza Aslam Baig. He discussed the Afghan situation and other bilateral issues with them.
After these meetings he told reporters that both Pakistan and the US were in basic agreement on Afghan issue. He reiterated the US support for the struggle of Afghans to exercise their right of self-determination and emphasized the removal of the Najib government as a first step towards a political settlement.
He said that Pakistan's and the US's common aims in Afghanistan were the right of Afghans to determine their own future, the honorable return of the refugees and the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
Mr. Kimmitt visited Peshawar to talk to leaders of the Afghan Interim Government and hear their views about
the situation in Afghanistan. AIG President Prof. Mujaddidi informed Mr. Kimmitt of the AIG's plan to hold elections and expressed the views of the AIG on the political and military aspects of the problem. Prof. Mujaddidi hosted a luncheon in honor of Mr. Kimmitt and his entourage.
At the end of Mr. Kimmitt's trip to India, a spokesman of the Indian Foreign Ministry said that he did not see any change in the position of the American government regarding Afghanistan.
India has maintained close ties with the Kabul regime both during and since the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.
Peter Tomsen, the US special envoy to the Afghan resistance, accompanied Mr. Kimmitt on his tour.
Informed sources believe that the US is reviewing its Afghan policy and Mr. Kimmitt's visit to the area was an assessment mission.
When the Mujahideen failed to achieve a quick victory, some members of the US Congress demanded that US policy on Afghanistan be reviewed.
American officials have shown concern that the administration may not be able get enough funding from the Congress to support the military activities of the Mujahideen. The Afghan war was very popular among Americans as long the Soviet troops were in Afghanistan. After the Soviet troops' withdrawal, the Afghan war came to an end for some Americans.
Four Mujahideen leaders pay visit to Saudi Arabia
Four Mujahideen leaders left for Saudi Arabia on January 21.
They included Prof. Sayyaf, Prof. Rabbani, Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi and Mawlawi Younus Khalis.
During their unofficial visit they perform Umra and met with Saudi officials to discuss with them the situation in Afghanistan.
Since the trip took place immediately after the announcement regarding the holding of elections, it is more significant
Saudi Arabia is a staunch supporter
of the Mujahideen and has recognized the Interim Government of the Mujahideen.
Jami'at supports Azari Muslims
Jami'at Islami Afghanistan condemns the use of fence by Moscow against Azerbaijan Muslims.
In an interview cm telephone from Saudi Arabia, Jami'at leader Prof. Rabbani has expressed his support for the just struggle of Muslims in Azarbaijan.
January 18,1990 triA «=jl* ^
Area/Tem. in C°	H	L
Kabul	1	0
ranin 13mm, snow 10cm		
North Salang	-6	-7
rain 29mm, snow 186cm		
Chekhcharan	-2	-13
rain 1mm, snow 27cm		
Shebiighan I	6	-1
Mazar-i-Sharif	11	0
Kunduz	9	-3 .
Toorghondi	6	-2
Herat	11	-1
Lashkargah	12	4
Farah	15	5
Zaranj	16	6
Lashkargah	15	10
rain 3mm		
Kandahar	13	8
Talaialwd	10	9
rain 3mm		
Faizabad	10	1
k.		-j
	■taul	
9ieCp us puBfish
WQlHMbzvs!
(PCease send your donations to the following account number:
3'EML'D Account 9{p. 735-37 tHiabib (Bank.Ltd. ‘Tehk&C Bala, (Peshawar (Pakistan