AFGHANews Vol 6, No 1, January 1,1990, page ©
*


w s
P-OBo* 264, F^bawar- Pakistan Tel: (8521) 41381
Defeated in Eastern Europe, Stalin fights his last battle of honor in Afghanistan
The new developments in Eastern Europe are a major victory for its people who have struggled for freedom and democracy.
The collapse of the Berlin Wall, formation of the Solidarity government in Poland, the end of the Communist Party monopoly in East Germany, Bulgarian and Hungary and the fall Romanian dictator, Nicolae Ceausescu, are; positive changes that the people of the world admire and support
Eastern Europe came under the communist rule after the World War II. The Soviet Union played a key role establishing and setting up communist systems of government in these countries. Pro-democracy and nationalist movements were crushed by the Warsaw Pact armies under the leadership of Moscow.
Changes in Eastern Europe started after the changes in Moscow but has already surpassed them. These changes have given hope to the people of the world that the black days of Stalinist types of dictatorships have come to an end.
Since the changes in the Soviet Union are slow and the Soviet leadership still insist on the monopoly of Communist party's leading role in running the government, one cannot be very optimistic about the future.
Moreover, the Soviet behavior outside Eastern Europe follows old patterns. That country supports a number of dictators in different parts of the world by giving them moral and material support. Soviet involvement in Afghanistan is a good example of pursuance of the old policies.
The world community welcomed the Soviet withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan. But it was surprised by the degree of Soviets' commitment in support of the Kabul regime which was brought to power by the Red Army when it invaded Afghanistan in 1979.
The Soviet Union is giving up to $ 400 million to the regime in the forms of military and economic assistance. It has given new sophisticated weapons to the regime which were nqt used by the Red Army during their ten years of their occupation.
This way the Soviet Union prevents the people of Afghanistan from choosing their destiny for the sake of which one million people have died.
Soviet leaders raise anti Stalin slogans and put the responsibility of the invasion of Afghanistan on Brezhnev and a small group of his friends, but in action they support the Kabul regime which is the product an 'illegal invasion'.
A quick look at history of the People Democratic Party of Afghanistan shows that this party has been a tool of the Soviets and is responsible for numerous crimes against the people of Afghanistan.
This party has been involved in the killing of more than one million Afghans and driving five million more out of the country along with the Soviet invaders.
Defending such a regime against its own people and supporting freedom and democracy in Eastern Europe is clear contradiction between Soviet leaders words and deeds.
Soviet policy towards Afghans should be as test case for the sincerity of that country for peace and leaving nations to decide their future. Gorbachev poses as a peace maker in Europe but fans the fire of the war in Afghanistan by giving weapons the Kabul puppet regime.
In the same way that public opinion had an effect the Soviets' decision to withdraw their troops from Afghanistan, it can force the Soviets to allow Afghans to determine their future. If Stalinist rule cannot stand against the popular movements in Eastern Europe it will never succeed in Afghanistan, the land of free people who passed a big test during ten long years of Soviet invasion.
Dr. Sakharov passes away
The leading Soviet human rights activist and Nobel prize winner. Dr. Andrie Sakharov, died in Moscow at the age of 68 on December 14. Dr. Sakharov who as a scientist participated in developing the hydrogen bomb for the Soviet Union in 1950, started to criticize the Soviet policies at home and abroad in 1968.
During the 1970s, Sakharov was closely watched by the Soviet KGB for taking an increasingly active role in speaking out about the injustices of the Soviet Union's domestic and international polices. In 1980, Sakharov's freedom of movement was confined to his home city of Gorky because of his out-spoken criticism of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
When he was elected a member of the Soviet parliament, he used this forum to raise his voice against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
Like the rest of the free world, the people of Afghanistan were saddened by Dr. Sakharov's death. He defended the Afghans cause from within the Soviet empire knowing that criticism would result in personal exile and depravation of freedom.
Dr. Sakharov will be remembered by the people of Afghanistan for his corageous efforts in speaking out about abuses of human rights and the plight of millions of people who have suffered as a result of the expansionist policies adopted by the Soviet government.
Two regime generals killed
General Shamsuddin was buried with a full military ceremony in Kabul on November 25, the regime radio reported.
He was killed in combat against Mujahideen forces on the Kandahar front
AIG official news agency, MIDIA, has also reported the killing of another regime general in the Jalalabad front. General Ghulam Haider was killed when the Mujahideen attacked his the army headquarters in Jalalabad on November 4.	.
Zarb-i-Momen
A high ranking delegation of the inter im government headed by Professor Sayyat witnessed the military exercises of the Pakistani army, called Zarb-e-Momen. The delegation visited the field headquarters of the army where they were briefed about the exercises.