BFOHR't HEilS UOl.to, HO. 1,      1/1/1908,  PTOE  7
      Ua rest still continues and the Israeli authorities threaten using a stronger force to cairn the situation Since Israel was created the people of Palestine have been suffering both in the occupied Palestine and in the refugee camps in other Arab countries. International community failed to find a solution to their problems and the Israeli authorities who have been successful in the battlefields against Arab armies, have refused to take proper steps to find an honourable solution to the problems of Palestine, in the latest incident. Palestinian teenagers faced armed Israeli soldiers and stones thrown by school boys was answered with a barrage of bullets,
      Israelis are the first who bear the responsibility of the plight of Palestinian but Arab countries, Muslim nations and the whole world can not escape a share of responsibility for not putting enough pressure on Israel and its principal supporters in the West to end the tragedy of Palestine.
      Most of the countries have expressed worry about the situation in the occupied Palestine, but Israeli leaders say they are not concerned what the rest of the world says about their misbehavior
      Afghan Resistance fully supports the just cause of Palestinian people and calls for an end to ail sons of violent action by the Israeli authorities against defenseless Palestinians
      Permanent solution to the problems of Palestine is the evacuation of Israeli forces from occupied Arab lands and the creation of a homeland for Palestinians.
                                       ITALIAN JOURNALIST CAPTURED
     A 2b year old Italian journalist, Fausts BilosJavo. was captured by the Communist troops in lunar about 4 weeks ago when he was passing the area,
     Mr, Fausto was returning from a three month trip to the North along with two other journalists. They could not go through Nooristan because one of the Mujahideen parties had blocked the way for the journalists going to the North and coming out
     The group of journalists who were trying to avoid a village controlled by the same party were passing close to a puppet security post, Mr. Fausto who had stayed behind separated from the group, walked by the post and was captured ,
     This is the second journalist captured during the current year The first one was Alan Geiiio. a French photographer who was captured in Mai mans area
     Russians and their puppets try to scare the foreign journalists from covering the war and try to capture them on charges of illegal entry and even spying. Some months ago two American journalists were killed by the Soviets on their way to Pakistan,
     Iq & war with so little coverage, losing so many journalists will put a further negative effect on the coverage of a forgotten war in Afghanistan.
                                          MAJ1B MET RAJIV }N NEW DELHI
     Najlb. the head of the puppet regime in Kabul, met Rajiv Gandhi in New Delhi on December 24 and discussed with him problems of mutual interest,
     This is Najib's first meeting to a foreign country other than the Soviet Union as the head of the puppet regime. Although the meeting was called unofficial, it shows the Indians close connection with the poppet regime and their silent support of the Soviet invasion in Afghanistan.
                     India as a member of the non-aligned movement has never criticized the Soviet