AFGHANews Vol6, No 16, August 15,1990, page ©
Mujahideen to reject any deal involving Kabul regime
Afohaniea moves
Habibur Rahman
Talks between the Foreign] Ministers of the Soviet Union and the United States in Irkutsk, Siberia, did not result in any agreement on the Afghan settlement, though the two sides reported progress.
The joint communique issued at the end of the talks said the two sides reaffirmed their wish to promote an early Afghan settlement through bee and fair elections.
The communique said the two sides recognized the need of a transition period and formation of a coordination representative body that would insure the Organization and preparation
of political settlement and the present formula under consideration is close to the offers of the Kabul regime to the Mujahideen. Therefore, there will not be any hesitation on the part Of the regime to accept the election formula.
The United States will face a prob-lem in selling the agreement reached between the two superpowers to the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen are not totally dependent on the US support and there is no coordination between the Mujahideen and the US on present talks for the settlement of the issue. The US might have coordinated its. efforts with Saudi Arabia and Pakistan, but the Mujahideen are usually informed after the decisions are made.
of elections and the resolution of some other questions related to the transition period. Forces could be placed at the disposal of this body to ensure public order, the statement said.
The statement also pointed out the need for consultation with different sides in the Afghan conflict to pave the ground for elections.
This means that the two sides have agreed on holding elections in which the two sides iti the conflict-the Mujahideen and the regime-will take part. They are discussing the foimation of a representative election commission to supervise the election. The role of the UN and OIC in the process is also under consideration.
There is no agreement yet about the role of N^jib and his government in the transition period. The Soviet Union and the UN have proposed that Najib and the Kabul regime should iemain in (tower during the transition period; but soihe of the pbw^rs of Najib will be transfeited to the election commission. The idea is to give control of the army, secret police and police (Sarandoy) of the regime to the election commission. In the coming Weeks Soviet and US experts will discuss details of the transition period in Washington.
Once they have agreed on aformu-la, they have to sell the idia. tb thO regime and the Mujahidben, the two sides directly involved in the conflict.
When the negotiations were under way, Najib went to Moscow. It is believed. that he will discuss the issue concerning the political settlement of Afghanistan with the Soviet leaders. Any agreement reached by the Soviets and the US wifi.be accepted by the regime because o!f tiie total dependence on the Soviet military and economic aid. There is bfose coordination be^ tween Moseovfr ahd fed)Ul bh the iissue
One can foresee that the^eleetion formula by which the regime will remain in power will be rejected by-the majority of the Mujahideen.
All groups in the resistance, AIG, Wahdat Party and parties outside the two grouping are strongly opposed to the participation Of the Kabul regime in any political process. The formula that envisages limited power to Najib during transition phase is totally unacceptable to them.
The presence of Najibullah under any name will not allow fair and free elections to be held in the areas controlled by the regime. Agreements on the papers Will not change the nature of the regime army, WAD and police. They cannot remain neutral because the ruling party has total control on them.
The shift in American policy tp-wards the Afghan issue is interesting/ The idea of holding elections based on the Nicaraguan experience Was first proposed by the Soviet delegation in Stockholm. The American side rejected the idea saying that the Situation in the two countries was different. The American side argued that the Managua regime Was not brought to poWer by an outside power as the Kabul regime was and Ortega had not killed one million of his people aS Najib had done. One seeS that noW the US is Coming close to the idea of accepting the foie Of Najib during elections.
The US interest in finding a solution to the Afghan issue is understandable. Ten years Of in volvement is a relatively long tiirie , for impatient Americans. But what is not understand-; able is the Claim of tiie US officiate who say that the Mujahideen and :US objectives aib the same; whereas the US adCept Najib'stole duringthetran-sitional period^ the Mujahideen are strohgly:o(posed to it
Due to improved circumstances AFGHANICA ( the Afghanistan Studies Newsletter) has been transferred from Oxford, U.K, to Krakow m Poland.
Polish scholars are preparing for an international conference on the theme 'Culture of Afghanistan: Problems of Continuity and Future Perspectives' to be held from April 4-6 1991 in Krakow, Poland. The organizers say that in spite of diminishing interest, Afghanistan still deserves the careful attention of international academic circles. Poland itself was for almost 45 years under a similar regime and can provide a valuable platform for understanding the cultural process introduced in Afghanistan by the communist coup of 1978.
The conference is - sponsored by the Institute of Oriental Philofcgyf .Krakow-University), Polish Ethnological Society and AFGHANICA^
While the sympathies of the Polish; government were with the. communist regime in Kabul, the struggle of the Mujahideen had many admirers among die Polish people affiliated with the Solidarity movement struggling for democracy.
There were close contacts between some groups of die resistance and solidarity activists in exile. Several Polish living in exile visited the war fronts to express their solidarity with die Afghan Mujahideen. Two Polish journalists, Andy Skrzypkowiak and Radek Sikorski, helped the cause by covering die war. The first filmed many' attacks and latter wrote many articles, fook pictures and wrote a book about Herat called 'Dust of the Saints'. Andy was killed in Afghanistan during one of his trips.
Ironically, die Polish people ^ho watched with admiration the decade-knag armed struggle of the Afghan people achieved their own victory before the Afghans.
AFGHANICA address:
AFGHANICA >
bistitute of Oriental Philology -Jagellonian Univesity Al.Mickiewicza 9/11 Krakow - Poland.
lnelp ttspubmn
(Please send your donations to tfte Jottounng account number:
Account 9{p. 735-37 tfaBiS &anJ<iLt({. tfeM&JBdfc, (Pesfiazoar y tPa6$stan
J