AFGHANews Vol 6, No 8, April 15,1990, page ®
UN Secretary General ends mandate of UNGOMAP
Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar informed the Security Council March 14 that the mandate of the UN Good Offices Mission in Afghanistan and Pakistan (UNGOMAP) will not be continued, but that he intends to keep a few officers and staff to help with other UN responsibilities in Afghanistan.
He said that his consultations with the signatories of the Geneva Accords "indicate that another extension of the existing arrangements would not meet with the necessary consensus" on what UNGOMAP's continued role would be.
UNGOMAP, which consists of about 40 officers from other UN peacekeeping and observer missions around the world, was created under the Geneva Accords to monitor the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan. Pakistan and Afghanistan
signed the Accords, with the United States and the Soviet Union acting as guarantors.
US officials said March 14 that the United States believed that the mandate of UNGOMAP itself was to monitor the Soviet troop withdrawal, and with that completed, no consensus could be reached on a future role.
Perez de Cuellar told the council that he intends to redeploy a limited number of the military officers from UNGOMAP as military advisers to Banon Sevan, his personal representative in Afghanistan and Pakistan, to assist in the implementation of other responsibilities related to Afghanistan.
UNGOMAP has been deployed in Afghanistan and Pakistan for 20 months.
This way of thinking might be true about some issues concerning the external aspects of the problem but the rehabilitation of refugees is an internal problem connected to security situation. Without the Mujahideen's agreement nothing will work.
Jami'at will oppose any plan which lead to any sort of deal with the Kabul regime and requires cease-fire of any kind with it
Jami'at has tried to prevent large scale immigration out of Afghanistan. It has reconstruction and rehabilitation program for the refugees in the areas it controls. Jami'at believes that provision of assistance to the concerned organization of the Mujahideen and help in reconstruction of the liberated areas will urge more refugees to return. The return of the refugees in mass is possible only after a truly Islamic representative government is established in Afghanistan.
'Turkistan Today' starts publication
Emigres from Central Asian republics have started to publish a news bulletin giving information about the struggle of people in that area for achievement of cultural, economic and religious rights.
"Turkistan Today" is edited by Timur Kocaoglu, and published in West Germany in English and Turkistani languages.
Following is the address of the paper
Dr. Timur Kocaoglu,
Horwarth Str. 37,
8 Munchen 40,
West Germany.
Turkic-speaking republics of Central Asia have waged a struggle for cultural, economic and religious freedoms. The movement is a natural reaction to seven decades of oppressive rule by the communists.
Moscow is wearied about the Islamic awakening in Central Asia and Azerbaijan, as was demonstrated by its decision to use the Red Army against the people in Baku and Dushanbe.
Glasnost has made KGB stronger than before
The number of those avoiding being drafted into the Soviet army has increased eightfold in recent years, creating a source of worry for the Soviet Army.
An article published in 'Pravda' says that in 1989, the number of young men who refused to be. drafted jumped to 6647 while in 1985 the figure was 837.
Growing nationalism among different republics may be the cause of this development
The Soviet army's image was dented because of its failed decade-long involvement in Afghanistan. The army has become unpopular at home. Soviet veterans of the war in Afghanistan are suffering from many psychological and physical scars. Some of them have even returned their medals and certificates of good performance to the Soviet authorities.
The communist party has suffered a great deal as well. Defections from the party and fragmentation along ethnic lines have drastically reduced its power.
The only organization which has remained intact is the KGB, the Soviet secret police, which has not been so seriously affected by the recent changes and polarization in the Soviet Union;
Experts believe that after the Soviets lose control of Eastern Europe, the KGB will have more time and resources to concentrate on domestic af-
fairs. It will refine its techniques, and remain the sole guardian of the communist dictatorship.
Iran joins space race
The Soviet Union and the Islamic Republic of Iran are studying the possibilities of sending an Iranian astronaut into space on a Soviet space ship, Iranian news agency (IRNA) has reported. The issue was reviewed at the 12th Iran-Soviet joint economic commission.
The Soviet Union uses joint space missions as a favor towards friendly nations. So far, French, Czech, Syrian and Afghan astronauts have participated in joint missions with Soviet cosmonauts. When the Kabul regime astronaut was sent on board a Soviet ship, most people assumed that it was a propaganda ploy to impress Afghan communists and to deceive world public opinion about the situation in Afghanistan.
Some time ago a Saudi cosmonaut was sent into space on an American space ship. It is interesting that superpower rivalries create opportunities for third-world astronauts to enjoy space flights.
The news indicates closer ties between Moscow and Tehran, which grow day by day.