\
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 17, September 1,1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Cmdr.Mahmood Khan
com* to him
Mahmood Khan is Jami'at mander. in Khash sub-Disrict of Badakhshan Province, He is a close associate of Sayyed Najmuddin, the General Commander of Mujahideen in Badakhshan.
When Kabul was about to fall. Commander Masood asked Sayyed Najmuddin to send his Mujahideen to take part in . the operation on Kabul. Mahmood Khan was sent at the head of 700 Mujahideen. They were flown to Kabul and were stationed in the airport and the presidential palace.
Mahmood Khan served as an offi-
/ 1
cer of the Afghan army in Paktika Province until 1979. He was part of a. unit of 40 officers and soldiers, four of, whom were communists. Mahmood Khan encouraged the noncommunist officers and soldiers to rise against the regime. They made a secret deal with the Mujahideen. The communist officers were tied’up with ropes by the noncommunist officers, who then al-owed the Mujahideen to enter their Ijase. Over 400 heavy and light weapons were seized by the Mujahideen: After this incident, Mahmood Khan migrated to Peshawar.
Mahmood Khan returned to Badakhshan with a group of Mujahideen in the Summer of 1979. they liberated Jurm and then lost it to the enemy due to shortages of ammunition and lack of experience in war. The district was liberated for the second time in the fall of the same year. The Mujahideen also liberated Baharak and Khash. More than 1700 heavy and light weapons were seized. Mahmood was appointed commander of his hometown, Uiash.
After the fall of Jurm, Baharak and Khash the Mujahideen advanced towards Faizabad, the provincial capital. Mahmood Khan was instructed to attack Faizabad from direction of Khash. The Mujahideen captured many security posts of Faizabad and brought a section of the city under their control. The Red Army entered Into Afghanistan and due to heavy aerial bombardments the Mujahideen retreated.
In 1980, the Soviet forces launched a big offensive against the Mujahideen in Khash, Baharak and Jurm. The Mujahideen were forced to retreat. Mahmood went to Peshawar to bring arms and ammunition to fight the Russian. He returned to Jurm with some weapons and ammunition given
by Jami'at H,e defeated the communist forces in Khash and liberated it. ,
He took part in an attack against Jurm In 1981 but the Mujahideen retreated after suffering some casualties.
Besides fighting between the Mujahideen and Soviets, Jurm was witness to infighting between the Mujahideen themselves. Several important commanders of the Mujahideen were killed in these infightings. Mahmood Khan skillfully avoided taking part in these senseless clashes.
When Sayyed Najmuddin was driven out of Wardooj valley by the Russians in 1984, he retreated to Khash. Mahmood Khan gave shelter to him and helped him to return to Wardooj and liberate it again.
When the Soviet forces left Afghanistan in 1989, the Mujahideen launched an attack on the regime's garrison in Baharak. Mahmood Khan took part in this operation, which led to the liberation of the district. In 1990, the Mujahideeen of Mahmood Khan took part in fighting which led to the liberation of Zebak, Ishkashim and Wakhan districts, situated along the border with Tajikistan.
Mahmood Khan was bom 48 years ago in the village Shahran, Jurm District. His father, Dadar Khan, was a farmer working on his own land. Mahmood Khan started primary studies in his native village. In 1952 he attend-' ed the Nfilitary School of Kabul. In 1954 he graduated from the military school and started work in Kabul. Later, he served in Kandahar, Bagram and Ghazni before being sent to Paktika.
asruddin's ables
Assumptions
"What is the meaning of fate, Nasruddin?"
"Assumptions."
"You assume things are going and they don’t - that you call bad luck You assume things are going to go badly and they don’t - that you call good luck. You assume that certain things are going to happen or not happen and you so lack intuition that you don’t know what is going to happen. You assume that the future is unknown
"What you are caught out - you call that Fate."
Just purpose...
Nasruddin was walking down the village street deep in thought, when some urchins began to throw stones at him. He was taken by surprise, and besides he was not a big man.
"Don't do that, and I will tell you something of interest to you."
"All right, what is it? But no philosophy."
"The Emir is giving a free banquet to all comers."
The children ran off towards the Emir's house as Nasruddin warmed to his theme, the delicacies and the delights of entertainment...
He looked up and saw them disappearing in the distance. Suddenly he tucked up his robes and started to sprint after them. "I'd better go and see," he panted to himself, "because it might be true after all.”