  AFGHAN NEWS_MJI__H&A1___1Z3/1M6_EMIL&
                       MMKMHAKMQVimE
 f\ report from Badakhshan province says that Mujahideen have carried out a series of attacks in Wardooj valley. It is said that a large number of posts have been destroyed and a large amount of arms and ammunition captured. Details will be published in the coming issues of Afghan News,
                                          PMTIA PRQYJJSCM
 6/8/1986. A report from Urgoon says that Mujahideen launched an attack on an enemy post in the South of Urgoon. As a result the enemy forces, reeieved many casualties. Three Mujahideen 'were injured. No figure for enemy casualties has been given.
                    S-QYIBTOBU^
 According to a report by the BBC some days, ago a Soviets attempt to smuggle large quantities of Heroin to Western Europe was foiled. The heroin which was labled as dry fruit from Afghanistan' was on board a Soviet ship which had started its journey from a Soviet port and had reached Amsterdam. The ship could not be stopped because after unloading it left the port and entered international Waters.
 This clearly show how the Soviets are playing a dirty game . It also shows how they are misusing the trade opportunities of the puppet regime for their
 benefit,
 We are surprised that the mass media did not give this incident the coverage it deserved . A super power . a member of the Security Council, a signatory of tens of treaties if it indulges in drug trafficking must be taken very seriously.
                                             DEAPMRMS
 In an attempt to keep its officers happy the puppet regime gave the title of hero of Afghanistan to four of its officers Two of the officers have already been Ruled One of them was General Ahmaduddin a Parchami officer who was killed in Pushghoor operation in Panjshir last year.
 When he refused to surrender an RPG shell cut him into pieces. We have killed half the Red Heroes and the other hail will soon be dead.
                                    ISLAMIC PROPAGATION CENTER
 An Islamic Propagation Center has been opened in the Panjshir recently. The purpose of the Center is to teach students and Mujahideen about their religion, and struggles The Center will be run by prominent Ulema t Islamic scholars) from the area. This type of work is necessary to safeguard the principles ol Islam and teach the new generation about their religious duties and social obligations.