AFGHANews Vol 5, No 13, July 1,1989, page
©
Soviet delegation discusses POW issue with resistance leaders
An 8-member delegation of Soviet citizens came to Pakistan on June 18 to lobby for the release of more than 300 Soviet soldiers who are thought to be captured by the Mujahideen.
In the delegation were three mothers and a father of the missing Soviet soldiers.
During the third round of Mujahid-Soviet talks on prisoners of war in Islamabad, the Soviet side revealed that this delegation would arrive.
The Pakistan government had agreed to the trip as a good-well gesture towards the relatives of the missing soldiers.
Inclusion of the mothers of the missing soldiers was a clever move by the Soviet side to draw public attention to their cause.
The delegation visited the press in Islamabad and held talks with Pakistan Foreign Minister, Yaqoub Khan, who assured them of Pakistan cooperation. .Yaqoub Khan said to the Soviet delegations that no Soviet POWs were on Pakistan soil.
The Soviet delegation which called itself1 a group of private citizens' flew to Peshawar to talk to the Mujahideen leaders. The trip to Peshawar proved an eye-opening event for the Soviet delegation.
Outside the hotel where they were lodged, a group of crippled Afghan children gathered to draw the attention of the Soviet visitors to the atrocities committed by the Soviet soldiers.
The delegation was received by the President and Foreign Minister of the interim government of Afghan Mujahideen. While the Mujahideen leaders showed sympathy for the agrieved Soviet mothers, they drew their attention to the scale of suffering of Afghans caused by the invasion of their homeland by Soviet army.
Prof. Mujaddidi, the president of the Interim Government, told the Soviet delegation that he was in favor of a total deal. He said that the Mujahideen were ready to release Soviet prisoners if the Soviets do the same. He said that more than 30,000 Mujahideen were missing in addition to more than 10,000 Afghan children taken to the: Soviet Union for brain-washing. He asked the Soviet side, to provide information about the missing Mujahideen and return the children.
During the meeting of the Soviet delegation with Prof. Mujaddidi, a soldier who has converted to Islam was shown to the visitors. The exsoldier said that he was not ready to return to the Soviet Union, but give a letter to the delegation to take to his family.
The women members of the delegation wore modest clothes and covered their heads when meeting the Mujahideen leaders to show their respect for the Islamic values in which Afghans believe.
The Soviet delegation visited the Red Cross hospital where war-wounded Afghans are treated, Nasir Bagh refugees camp and met with a group of Afghan women who had lost their relatives in the war.
The delegation was greatly affected by the scale of suffering of the Afghans.
In a press conference they called the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan a mistake.
When asked about a possible deal on prisoner exchange, the head of the Soviet delegation said that he will pass the Mujahideen demand on to the Soviet government
Soviets say that 311 of their soldiers are missing. Afgh
an sources say that the number of the soldiers captured by the Mujahideen is less than the figure given by the
Regime captures American journalist
A US journalist was captured by the regime police on June 8 in Kabul.
Tony O'Brien, a free-lance photo-journalist, was arrested by the regime police along with an Afghan Mujahid when he was smuggled into the city of Kabul.
He had visited Afghanistan many times in the past to cover the war. Kabul regime has said that it is ready to release O'Brien if the US sends a special envoy to Kabul to negotiate the de-
tails of his release.
A spokesman for the American government said in Washington that the American journalist's capture will not change American policy on Afghanistan.
In the past, several journalists from different countries have been arrested but were later released . The Kabul regime tried many of them on charges of espionage and anti-state activities.

brings down
Iranian authorities have said that a personal feud between the flight guard and the co-pilot of a regime civilian airline led to its crash on June 18 in which five people were killed and 25 injured.
The plane belonging to Ariana Afghan Airlines was on its way from Kabul to Zaranj, the provincial capital of Neemroz province, when the fighting between the flight guard and the copilot forced it to land on a sand strip near the city of Zabul in Iran. The plane overturned. Iranian authorities helped the survivors and admitted the wounded to hospital.
The spokesman of the regime had claimed that the plane was hijacked and even accused pro-Mujahideen elements of being involved in the hijacking, but Iranian authorities rejected this view and attributed the crash to fighting between the crew of of the ill-fated Antonov-26 jet liner. The wounded passengers and bodies of those killed in the incident were returned to Kabul.
Due to road blocks the air link is the only means of transportation to most of the cities controlled by the regime.
Ariana Afghan Airlines is mainly engaged in domestic flights and its international flights are limited to Delhi and Moscow.
Before the communist coup, Ariana Airlines flew to many countries all over the world. When a Pakistani plane was hijacked by some terrorists and was taken to Kabul some years ago, the communist regime in Kabul did not help in resolving the issue and was accused of helping the hijackers who killed a Pakistani diplomat, a passenger of the hijacked plane. Because of that incident, planes belonging to Ariana Airlines were banned from landing in most European airports.
Most of the experienced pilots and technicians of Ariana Airlines have gone to exile and the company suffers from low safety standards.
200 military advisors helping regime
The Soviets have kept 200 military advisors in Afghanistan following the withdrawal of their troops on February 15, the Washington Post reported on June 8 quoting American Defence Department officials.