AFGHANews Vol 5, No 2, January 15,1989, page 2
News
From the battlefields
. Kunduz province
FORTY passengers of a bus were killed by the Soviet soldiers in Abdan-i-Mir Alam, near Imam Saheb District, one month ago, commander Abdul Mateen said to Afghanews reporter.
The passengers who were mainly women, children and old people were settlers of Imam Saheb.
Kunduz city was liberated in the Fall but was recaptured by the communists when the Soviets intervened.
Abdul Mateen who is a Jami'at commander from Imam Saheb, a dis* trict along the Soviet border, said that the regime has arrested 30 WAD officers for their bad performance in fighting which resulted in the fall of Kunduz city in the hands of the Mujahideen.
It is believed that some of these officers will be hanged and some others will be sentenced to long term imprisonment.
WAD is the secret police of the regime trained and organized by KGB. Earlier it was called KHAD.
Ghazni province
MORE than 100 enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded when the Mujahideen from Jami'at who were helped by the Mujahideen from other parties attacked the enemy positions in Ghazni on December 27. The Mujahideen made use of heavy and light weapons in the attack.
On December 26 the Mujahideen shot down an enemy helicopter which was bringing supplies to the besieged enemy garrison in the city. One Mujahid was killed in the operation.
Fighting for control of the some areas around the city continued on January 9,10 and 11. Forty enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded. The Mujahideen lost one man.
The snow and cold weather has not decreased the level of fighting between the Mujahideen and communist forces.
Ghazni is a historic city located on the Kabul-Kandahar road. Its supply lines are cut and it is being supplied by air.
Takhar province
THE enemy garrison in Bagh-i-Zakhira near Taliqan city was captured by the Mujahideen on December 25.
There were about 400 enemy soldiers stationed in the garrison. The attack was launched by the Mujahideen belonging to different parties but Jami'at played a key role in the victbry.
The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured 150 enemy soldiers including the provincial head of WAD and the commander of the police force in the garrison and 14 other officers. The Mujahideen from Jami'at also captured two armored cars, more than 100 guns and a great quantity of ammunition.
Earlier the Mujahideen had captured the stronghold SAZA, a communist faction, in Qazaq near Taliqan city. By elimination of Bagh-i-Zakhira garrison, Taliqan became safer.
Oh December 27 the enemy abandoned Chah Aab district in Takhar. Most of the enemy soldiers joined different Mujahideen groups..
Chah Aab is located along the Soviet border.
Balkh province
THE Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked with long-range weapons the enemy position in the Fertilizer Factory near Mazar city. The enemy casualties were not immediately known but it is believed to be heavy.
In a clash with the communist forces in Sia Gird area of Nahr-i-Shahi district, two enemy tanks and three
trucks were destroyed and an unknown number of enemy soldiers were killed. Juma Qahraman, a well-known communist figure in the area, was killed in the operation.
The Mujahideen lost two men and six Mujahideen were injured.
The enemy retaliated by bombing Jami’at strongholds in Alburz and Aaqtaipa but no figures for the casualties were immediately known.
Kabul province
TO mark the 9th anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan the Mujahideen from Jami’at under the command of Mullah Ezat fired 50 rounds of ground-to-ground rocket on the enemy instalations in Qargha division, Darulaman and Khair Khana on December 27.
It is believed that the enemy have suffered heavy casualties as a result of the attack but no figures were immediately available.
The enemy retaliated by bombing Paghman heavily which caused damages to properties. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
Aerial an ground bombardment of Paghman district, 17 kilometers West of Kabul, has intensified and the enemy is making extensive use of heavy rockets against the Mujahideen.
Paghman is a beautiful valley which was s Summer resort for the people of Kabul. Paghman became a stronghold of the Mujahideen since the beginning of the Soviet invasion.
Ningarhar province
AFTER two days of severe fighting, the Mujahideen captured Goshta district headquarters in Ningarhar province and killed some 100 Kabul regime troops and captured 18 high ranking officials, on January 9th, said ANS field correspondent
There were some 1200 Kabul regime militiamen and soldiers defending the headquarters. In a joint attack on January 7th, Mujahideen captured nine surrounding posts and Shakarghund battalion near the district headquarters.
The Mujahideen captured three armored cars, one jeep, two trucks and a large quantity of arms and ammunition with the loss of 14 Mujahideen martyrs arid another 10 wounded.
Kabul regime retaliated by high-altitude bombing on January 9th in which many houses were hit. No casualties is reported yet