 AFGHAN NEWS            No. 21         17-12-1985           P-6g
                   GENEVA.^ TALKS _AND_ OUR_POSITION
 A iiev round *f proximity, talks . between Pakistan and the puppet .' regime will starts soon. It is necessary to clearify our position on the issue once again.
 We believe that the Geneva talks in .the present form can not achieve any acceptable objectives. The two sides, the Afghan resistance who representing the nation and the Soviets who have invaded Afghanistan are not present at the talks.
 The Soviets have sent the puppet regime' there to show their good-well, deceive world opinion,whinlris against the Soviet invasion and win recognition for the puppet regime .
 Pakistan which has been affected, by the influx of three million refugees, has numerous reasons to participate in the talks. But: the other side is still not ready to discuss the withdrawal of Soviet troops .
 The Mujahideen do not have any representation in the talks directly or indirectly. While we consider the present Geneva talks useless and unproductive, we think it is better for the Soviets to talk directly about the problems to the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen represent the Afghan nation and control moat of the land in Afghanistan* Xn the past the Soviets have talked directly with Mujahideen inside the Country and have even signed some local military agreements.
 We believe there is no military solution to tho problem of Afghanistan . The. final solution must be diplomatic and political. While we continue the armed struggle, we are still trying to find political means to solve the problem. The key to the solution is the withdrawal of Soviet forces, the guarantee of non-interference in Afghan affairs, the people's choice of the future form of the government and the restoration of a non-aligned and Islamic status for
 Afghanistan.               PANJSHIR_VALLEY
                              The enemy post in Bara wiged out
 The enemy attacked Bara valley from the air and ground . Dara has seen many battles in the past but this time the purpose of the attack was different . The enemy wanted to establish a new post with the help of some local Ehad agents who were living in Kabul.
 From 21 November till 2nd of Dec. as a result of severe clashes with the. enemy more than 200 enemy soldiers were killed, ten tanks destroyed and 2 AN-47s captured. Mujahideen isolated the newly established post from their main forces in Keraman where the enemy armoured units were. . On Dec. 2nd, the Mujahideen launched a decisive attack against the post which had more than 300 DRA soldiers . In a severe clash 50 soldiers were killed, two helicopters were shot..,