AFGHANews Vol8, No 8, April 15,1992, page ©
Council
Mohammad Yunus Qanuni, the representative of the Supervisory Council in Peshawar, has rejected the allegations that the Mujahideen activities in the north were separatist moves.
In a press conference held in Peshawar on March 30, he said that the allegations leveled by some individual Afghans that developments in the north were motivated by ethnic factors were baseless.
Giving background information to the reporters, Qanuni said the Kabul regime had been suffering from internal tension among its different armed groups since a long time.
Given details of these differences, he said Najib wanted to purge his army from officers whom he suspected their loyalty. Not only he transfered 20 generals from their posts, Najib rotated some of the army units that he thought woe loyal to his opponents within the Watan Party.
Qanuni said when Najib ordered transfer of General Momen from Hayratan in mid January, his opponents were alarmed and tried to resist the move. Momen was encouraged by them to defy the transfer order. The two militia groups of Sayyed Kayan and Rashid Dostum supported Momen because his transfer would have weakened their own positions.
He said relations between the army chief in' the north, Juma Asek, and the two militia groups deteriorated when the militias suffered heavy losses in fighting in Khwaja Ghar and Khanabad with the Mujahideen last Spring. The militias considered the war, under the command of Asek, as a conspiracy against themselves.
Qanuni said Najib reacted violently to the reaction of Momen and militia groups farcing them to contact the Mujahideen. Later, Najib softened his position by transfering Juma Asek from his post in return for the transfer of Momen from his Hayratan post. Hie opponents of Najib were happy by the transfer of Asek but continued to resist Najib's demand to transfer Momen. Najib retaliated by re-appointing Jumfl Asek to his previous post of the commander of northern theater, making the rebel forces more suspicious about his intentions.
The representative of the council said Jami'at Mujahideen had prepared themselves to exploit the new developments and tension between militia groups that formed the most effective part'of the regime defense forces and
the regime army had provided the Mujahideen with a good opportunity.
He said Commander Masood ordered military operations in Balkh and in Samangan in the second week of March. The Mujahideen won major quick victories. This was possible because the militia forces remained neutral in fighting between the Mujahideen and the regime forces.
Qanuni said Jami'at was in control of all districts of Balkh and major parts of the city of Mazar. They were negotiating with the rebel militias for the creation of an administration to provide security for Mazar.
"Afghans inside and outside the country welcomed the Mujahideen's victories. The victories were received well by all ordinary Afghans irrespective of their party affiliation and ethnic origin," Qanuni said.
He regretted that some Afghan individuals viewed the Mujahideen's victories in the north as a separatist move. These allegations have no foundation.
he declared.
Qanuni elaborated that there were two sources which indulged in such a propaganda: die Kabul regime and some people who thought the victories posed a threat to UN peace plan. Those who considered the UN peace plan as a vehicle for their personnel power saw the Mujahideen's victories as a threat to their ambitions.
He emphasized that military operations of the Mujahideen posed no threat to the political solution of the problem, but in the contrary, they would expedite the solution of the problem.
Qanuni argued that the main obstacle on the way of peace was the Kabul regime and any move to weaken the regime improved the prospects of an early solution. The recent victories of the Mujahideen in the north forced Najib to gave an undertaking to hand over the power to an interim administration.
Qanuni said ethnic and linguistic differences were problems within the regime but some individuals have tried, for their own political benefits, to generalize it by accusing some Mujahideen of involving in such activities.
•••
Some Mujahideen commanders had expressed concern about what they called it the spread of regional and ethnic feelings in the rank of some Mujahideen in the north.
Amin Wardak, a commander of Hezb Islami Khalis, has acted as the spokesman of the group to project these worries. A press release in this connec tion was distributed from the office of Abdul Haq while he himself was out of Pakistan. Although the press release die not name the Mujahideen party in volved in ethnic game, bu it was understood that the target was Jamt’ajL