 AFGHAN
NEWS
                  A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI’AT 1SLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                            Post Office Box No. 264. Peshawar- Pakistan.
                                 VoL II, No. 16, 15/8/1986.
                                                                                  «
   A tragedy has been played in Afghanistan since eight years. Millions of Afghans have lost their property. Afghanistan is . divided between the countryside, controlled by Mujahideen and the cities controlled by occupation forces. 80% of the countryside has been destroyed by continous offensives and protracted aerial bombardments. Many farmers have left the country and become refugees. Farm production has declined. Animals have been killed by the war. Trees cut down by the Soviets have withered unwanied.when left unattended. Ail sorts of economic activities have come to an end.
   In such circumstances the need to support civilians, mainly old men , women and children is becoming necessary. If they are not helped , they will leave the country and join million others in the neighbouring countries. This is what the Soviets want and we are trying not to allow.. The best way is to help them inside. Give them food, clothes and medicine.
                                              *
   There are some private relief organizations who have helped the people inside but their means are very limited and the problems have now become so large.
   Last year there was extensive talk of millions of Dollars of aid for the war-affected Afghans was on the radios and in the papers. Aithogh now 8 months of the current year has passed no improvement has been seen . The difficulties have increased and the Soviets are still following their economic war and migratory genocide.
   Can we feed starving children . women and old men with words? People are in desperate need of assistance and the commanders are fighting on two fronts: against the Soviets and against the hunger which is threatening the survival of their people.