Vol 6, No 3	February	1,	1990
AIG will hold elections for grand 'Shoora' soon
SCUD missile lands near Islamabad
A SCUD missile fired by the Kabul regime landed in Hisar village, 30 kilometers from Islamabad on January 10.
The incident caused no casualties but material losses were reported. Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto called the firing of missile a cowardly act by the Kabul regime.
The missile landed near the Wah Ordnance Factory. The Pakistan Times in its editorial said the target of the attack was the Factory.
The Pakistan Government protested to the Kabul regime over the incident, and the Soviet ambassador to Islamabad was informed of the concern of the Pakistan government
The UN observer team UNGOMAP (United Nation Good Offices Mission in Afghanistan and Pakistan) was asked by the Pakistan government to carry out an investigation.
The incident took place while the Security Council was discussing the extension of UNGOMAP’s mandate. UNGOMAP was created by the UN to monitor implementation of the Geneva accord signed by Pakistan and the Kabul regime on 14 April, 1988.
The mandate of this 50-member observer team was about to expire on January 15. The Soviet Union wanted its mandate to be extended for six months while the US was of the view that it had completed its task of monitoring the Soviet troop withdrawal.
The Kabul regime might have fired the missile to prompt the extension of UNGOMAP mission.The mission was extended for two months one day after the missile incident.
The Soviet Union cannot escape responsibility for firing the missile because it provided the weapon to the regime. Moreover, the Soviet Union's militaiy advisers help in firing of SCUD missiles.
The SCUD missile has a range of about 300 kilometers and delivers a warhead weighing 1000 kilograms.
The Afghan Interim Government will hold elections throughout Afghanistan for a broad-based Shoora (council)
Pro. Sayyaf the Prime Minister of AIG told reporters in Peshawar cm January 27 that the elections will start in February and will be completed within four months.
According to the AIG program the people of each of the 216 districts (Woloswalis) will elect ten people from among themselves as members of a Grand Assembly. At least one of the ten persons should be from the refugee camps. The ten elected people will then choose one person from among themselves as a member of the national assembly. The rest of the elected members will form district and provincial councils.
Each Mujahideen party will also introduce 15 people to the Grand Assembly, five of whom should be independent Ten of the 15 people will be chosen to the National Assembly. Three of these must be independent
Election procedure will be decided
by the people in each constituency. The flexibility regarding election procedure is introduced to make the program successful in country which is at war. The qualifications of the candidates will be determined by the Election Commissioner of the AIG.
The AIG believes that the national assembly created throughout such elections will be representative.
Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) has opposed the AIG plan and has called for holding elections in Afghanistan and the refugee camps using ballot box.
The Iran-based Mujahideen parties have also raised some questions about the elections.
Prof. Sayyaf told BBC that the AIG would discuss the details of the election plan with Hezb and Iran-based parties so that a consensus is reached. But he made it clear that elections will be held according to the program even if the differences are not resolved.
The AIG's tenure, which was to expire in February, has been extended till creation of the new Shoora.
UN Seretary General discusses Afghanistan with Soviet leaders
The UN Secretary General, Javier Perez de Cuellar has met Soviet leaders in Moscow to discuss the Afghan situation with them.
Making use of his visit to Moscow to address a conference on the environment, he discussed ways of bringing peace to Afghanistan with President Gorbachev and Foreign Minister Shevardnadze.
The UN Secretary General has a mandate to search for a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
UN sources told the New York Times prior to the Secretary General's trip to Moscow that he will discuss with the Soviet leaders the issue of arms embargo to both sides of the con-
flict, including the withdrawal of the sophisticated weapons given to the Kabul regime after the Soviet troop withdrawal.
Mr. de Cuellar has proposed formation of ten-member delegation representing the Mujahideen parties based in Pakistan and Iran, field commanders and supporters of the ex-king. This delegation should be authorized to take decisions on behalf of the opponents of the Kabul regime. That would be a first step towards a political process which would bring peace to Afghanistan.
Benon Sevan, who has replaced Diego Cordovez as the special envoy of the UN Secretary General, accompanied Mr. de Cuellar in his trip to Moscow.