Vol 7, No 2
January 15,1991
Sharif reaffirms Pakistan’s support for Mujahideen
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has said Iran, Pakistan and Turkey should work together for finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan which is acceptable to Afghans.
In an opening speech to the meeting of foreign ministers of the three countries in Islamabad, he said despite the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, conflict continues, and more than five million Afghan refugees still live in Pakistan and Iran.
He said the past two years have shown that the refugees will not go back until a government acceptable to the people of Afghanistan is established. He said the three countries must work together so that the independent, sovereign, Islamic and non-aligned character of Afghanistan is fully restored.
Talking to the National Assembly of Pakistan, Foreign Minister Sahibzada Yaqoub Khan said Pakistan’s Afghan policy rests on two pillars - a political settlement in Afghanistan and support for the Mujahideen until Afghans have won independence.
He said he and Shevardnadze during their last meeting had decided to consult each other on all questions, including Afghanistan, which was the only impediment in the way of better relations with Moscow.
Meanwhile Mujahideen leaders met the Iranian foreign minster, Ali Akbar Velayati, in Islamabad and discussed the Afghan issue. He assured Afghan leaders of Iran's support. In the meeting several Afghan leaders including Prof. Rabbani, Maulawi Khalis and Prof. Mujaddidi were present.
The Mujahideen leaders also met Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and discussed with him the situation in Afghanistan. This was the first meeting Of resistance leaders with Nawaz since-was elected Prime Minister of Pakistan.
Soviet pilots still bomb Mujahideen
A reliable source told AFGHANews that Soviet pilots are still involved in combat missions and the Red Army is involved in black marketing and drug trafficking.
According to the source, convicted Soviet pilots are given a choice between going to Afghanistan and imprisonment. Soviet pilots fly jets in combat missions against the Mujahideen from the regime air base in Mazar-i-Sharif.
Soviet pilots bringing supplies to Kabul are paid $300 in hard currency, the source said. On the way back, they smuggle gold, carpets, hard currency and drugs to the Soviet Union. Smuggling is on such a large scale that high Red Army involvement cannot be ruled out.
The Soviet Union supplies food and other essential goods to Kabul and each day dozens of Soviet transport planes bring supplies to Kabul.
Afghans condemn invasion of their country by USSR
Afghan Mujahideen and refugees in Pakistan and Iran commemorated the occupation of their country by the Red Army by holding protest rallies on the 11th anniversary of the invasion A huge meeting was organized by the AIG in Jalozai refugee camp outside Peshawar. Prof; Sayyaf and Prof. Rabbani, AIG prime minister and reconstruction minister, were the main speakers.
Prof. Sayyaf said continued Soviet military and economic support to the Kabul regime shows that Moscow is determined to prevent formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
He criticized Saudi Arabia and Kuwait for giving economic aid to the Soviet Union while Moscow was still involved in killing Muslims in Afghanistan.' •
Prof. Rabbani, Jami’at leader, talking about the positive aspects of the Afghan people's uprising against the Soviet invaders, said Jehad played a key role in awakening people in Palestine, Kashmir and Eastern Europe to stand against occupation and injustice. He said that the Mujahideen were facing difficulties due to a decrease in assistance from outside.
Prof. Rabbani said the fall of the Kabul regime was imminent, but he advised the Mujahideen to correct their
mistakes and forge unity among themselves to bring victory closer.
A resolution was passed in which the participants demanded continuation of the armed struggle against the communist regime and rejected the possibility of any deal with Kabul. An effigy of Najib was set on fire at the end of the meeting.
Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) held a separate meeting in Warsak camp to condemn the Soviet invasion.
About two hundred women belonging to a SAZA (a pro-Chinese communist faction) held a rally in Quetta condemning both die Kabul regime and Mujahideen parties.
Thousands of Afghans held a procession in Tehran to condemn the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Similar processions ^vere also held in other cities of Iran.
The Iranian president, in a message which was read out in the Friday prayer gathering, praised the struggle of Afghans against the Soviet occupation.
Commander Ismail Khan, in message on this occasion, said that the Afghans' struggle against the Soviets had contributed to the changes in Eastern Europe.
Turn to page (2)