AFGHANews Vol 5, No24, December 15,1989, page©
An overview of the situation in 1989
By: Mohammad Bs'haq
The year 1989 witnessed the completion of the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan. This was a historic event for Afghans, who had fought for a decade to liberate their country. But the departure of Soviet troops did not bring peace. The Kabul regime, which they had installed, remained in power. The resistance continued to fight for the removal of the regime, but contrary to the world's expectations, achieved no major victory.
No acceptable formula has been found to solve the problem of Afghanistan politically, and the war's continuation has caused the Afghan people to suffer.
The last Soviet troops left Afghanistan on February 15, 1989. The Geneva accords signed by Pakistan and the Kabul regime on March 14, 1988, paved the way for the withdrawal.
Soviet troops were engaged in military operations until the completion of their withdrawal. In January, they launched a major attack in Salang, killing hundreds of ordinary people and destroying most of the villages in that valley.
After the Soviet withdrawal, the Mujahideen faced the Kabul regime's forces. Ordinary Afghans and foreigners alike predicted that the Mujahideen would defeat the regime quickly and establish their own government in Kabul. Even people within the regime and some Soviet circles predicted the fall of the regime soon after the withdrawal
The Kabul regime took defensive. measures, imposing a state of emergency, arming party workers and strengthening defenses around the cities.
The resistance was busy with other activities. Under pressure from public opinion and suggestions from friendly countries, they got together to form an interim government to replace the Kabul regime and avoid complications after the regime was defeated.
A Consultative Council was formed in Rawalpindi. Disputes over the number seats for the Iran-based Mujahideen parties resulted in their boycotting the interim government. Five days after the Soviet withdrawal, the Interim Government was framed and Prof. Mujaddidi was elected president.
The interim government needed to be strengthened by other military and political steps to make it a credible organization. The government promised to move inside Afghanistan and hold
elections, but could not fulfill either of the two promises.
The Interim Government needed a military achievement to establish its control over Mujahideen who were organized along party lines inside Afghanistan.
World expectations forced the Mujahideen to go to action. The Jalalabad offensive was the first major attack against the regime after withdrawal. Changing the Mujahideen's command structure and tactics were beyond the AIG’s abilities in the short term. But although AIG did not have practical control over the situation, the outcome of war affected its future.
When the Mujahideen failed to capture Jalalabad, world expectation of the Mujahideen victory over the communist regime decreased. Recognition of the AIG was limited to the Organization of the Islamic Conference and four other countries.
The major reason for the failure of the Jalalabad campaign was the resistance's unpreparedness for an offensive war, which it had not fought before. Moreover, the political groundwork had not been laid for such a change and none of the necessary organizational changes had been introduced Shortages of some weapons and tactical shortcomings also contributed to the failure of the campaign.
The regime's survival in Jalalabad gave it hope and raised the morale of its troops somewhat
It was expected that during the summer, which is the "fighting season" throughout most of the country, the war would escalate. But the summer passed without major military engagements by the Mujahideen.
If we set aside total defeat of the regime, which was an ambitious plan, die Mujahideen have had second rate victories over the regime during the year. More areas have been liberated, the regime has been isolated and the Mujahideen's movements inside the country have become easier than in the past. Some Mujahideen fronts have been busy reorganizing their forces, reviewing their tactics and preparing for major engagements.
The Mujahideen now control five provinces and most of the districts in the country. They have continued to build more hospitals and schools, and have been busy repairing roads, irrigation channels and bridges. The role of private relief organizations in financing these projects have been considerable.
The current stalemate on the battle-I is understandable. The Soviets left before the resistance was ready for an offensive. The geographical structure of Afghanistan, ethnic composition of the country and political affiliations of the people made efforts at reorganization and unification proceed very slowly. This is why some of the expected attacks by major commanders did not happen.
Lack of coordination on the national level makes any individual move by the commanders against the regime a risky task. A major commander once told a journalist: "I have the ability to capture this city in my area but 1 am afraid of retaliatory attack by the enemy. In the absence of military activities in other areas, I will be the sole target of all the enemy SCUD missile, and warplanes".
Shortages of weapons and ammunition have also affected the Mujahideen’s plans. Major commanders like Masood and Ismael Khan did not receive what they needed during the current year. They were forced to revise their plans and fight for limited objectives.
Massive Soviet military and economic aid helped the regime to hold on. In addition to leaving a large volume of aims and ammunition during their withdrawal, they have sent large quantities of arms and ammunition including new weapon systems to the Najibullah regime. Soviet military advisors are helping the regime in Kabul and some provinces.
Gorbachev's commitment to support the regime has surprised western leaders who thought such levels of military assistance unlikely.
Militarily speaking, the present situation will not last long. One side or the other has to go to the offensive. The Mujahideen control a solid base in the countryside and have enough manpower to fight the war. The regime has plenty of weapons and an army with several years of. experience, but suffers from a lack of popular support and a shortage of manpower.
The Mujahideen have faced many political problems this year. The AIG has not been able broaden its base. Lack of progress on the battlefield has made the supporters of the resistance hesitate. Many outsiders feel the war is now a civil war between Afghans. The Mujahideen's failure to present their views effectively, as well as massive Soviet and regime propaganda have damaged world support for the Mujahideen.
Difficulties between resistance par-