AFGHANews Vol 8, No5, March 1,1992, page.©
eminent do not fully realize the complexity of die task of running one. This is a problem that opposition politicians have all over the world (like Timmy Carter or Benazir Bhutto), but it is an even greater problem in Afghanistan. I tried to outline what I think will be some of the problems in my paper.
Economic compulsion may place some limits on politicians - -1 would be interested to hear more what you mean by this. As for Islam, I am not sure. Of course Islam is in one sense the most powerful force in Afghan society today, because nearly everyone believes in it, and those who do not have to act as if they do. The problem is that for this belief to become politically effective requires a modem political organization. M awl ana Maududi wrote on this subject since the 1930s, and, according to your memoirs, this was also one of the main ideas of the Islamic movement in Afghanistan. But Islam means different things to different Muslims, so that there are many different Islamic political organizations, in which belief in Islam is mixed up with economic interest, ethnic grievances, and personal ambitions. After all, even the best Muslim is only a human being. A strong leader whom people really believed was a sincere Muslim could use this belief to great effect This leader would probably also have to be a Pashtoon who knew how to play both tribal and international games and had good relations with the other ethnic groups, based on Islam. I have in mind a modem version of Amir Dost Mohammad. I do not see any such leader today. Hence Islam is not yet effective as an unifying force at the national level.
Barnett R. Rubin Associate Professor of Political Science Columbia University
f--------------------------------*\
Kabul regime releases Mujahideen prisoners
The Kabul regime released nine prisoners of war - five Pakistanis and four Afghans - on February 11, at the UN's request, to promote peace and improve relations with Pakistan.
They were given to Benon Sevan, the UN special envoy on Afghanistan, who has embarked on a peace mission to solve the Afghan conflict. Sevan handed them over to the 1CRC.
Sevan appealed to all sides in the conflict to release all prisoners of war and political prisoners. He also called on those holding the prisoners to treat thein in accordance with international laws.
The Pakistani prisoners were later flown to Peshawar by ICRC.
Diplomats in Kabul described the release of the POWs as a publicity victory for Kabul.
Commander Haqqanl released about 1,000 prisoners of war about one month ago. They were soldiers and officers captured In Khost last March.
Afghan Jehad still popular in France
Mohammad Es’haq
I was in Paris ai the beginning of February. Daud Mir, the representative of Jami’at in Fiance, arranged a number of meetings for me to speak about the situation in Afghanistan.
I	was	interviewed by Guissou
Jahangiri, an Iranian journalist, who works for International Courier, a journal which reviews articles published in other papers. She seemed familiar of the situation in Afghanistan.
Radio France International interviewed me for background information. Many questions were asked about possible developments after the arms cutoff to the Mujahideen and the new policy of Pakistan.
An Afghan invited me to visit Nante, a city in the west of France. Our host, Wahid Alim, proved to be extremely hospitable. He and his family had great admiration for field commanders such as Ahmad Shah Masood and Anwari. The family has two Afghan restaurants in the city. Through these restaurants, they play an important role in the introduction of Afghan culture.
In Nante, I held a small preSs conference. West France newspaper published my interview. FR3, a local TV station, also showed a 30-minute program - - a small film shot by the Mujahideen along with my interview. It was good to refresh people's memory about Jehad.
Jehad has made Afghanistan very famous in every comer of the world. This is the reason that Afghan restaurants and handicraft shops are becoming popular. Ironically, the Kabul regime and the traders connected to it are also benefiting from this popularity gained by the sacrifices of the Mujahideen.
The most important part of the program was a dinner organized by the Jami'at office. More than 40 diplomats, aid workers, journalists, and other people involved in Afghanistan were invited. The meeting place was an Afghan restaurant close to the historic Paris mosque. 'The story of victory", a documentary film about the 1991 Mujahideen victories in the North of Afghanistan, was shown to the guests. Afghanistan was a subject of private discussion among the guests. People enjoyed the Afghan food and the film.
Afghans living in exile need true information about the situation in their country. Their only source of information is the Western media, which is generally negative towards the Mujahideen. I advised Daud to send copies of the film to important Afghans living in the West to give them an idea about the real situation in Afghanistan. When I was in Paris, French papers wrote many articles about the role of "Afghans” in armed clashes with Algerian security forces. Many papers contacted the Jami’at office for comment Jami'at answer was that die problem in Algeria is the internal issue of Algerians. The situation deteriorated when
the military Junta annulled the result of the elections that the Islamic Front was winning.
Some Algerians might call themselves Afghans because Afghan Jehad against Soviets is a source of inspiration foT them.
A few Algerians might have visited Afghanistan as journalists and aid workers People from other nationalities also used to visit Afghanistan for the same reason. This is the only connection between Afghans and the developments in Algeria.
A French journalist whom I knew told me an interesting story. This journalist was bom in Kabul when his father worked in French Embassy. He learned Persian in Kabul and speaks the language very well. His fluent Persian surprised Najib when he interviewed him in Kabul. He has visited Panjshir, Logar and Herat and is fully aware of atrocities committed by the communists.
When Najib visited France, he was brought to French TV (Second Channel) for an interview. The journalist was given the job of translating the question for Najib. He sat a room next to the studio. He could see Najib on the screen and Najib heard his translation through an earphone. When Najib was asked to comment on his national reconciliation policy, he started to give his usual speech that the people were rallying behind his government ... . Hearing these lies, the translator could not control himself and said to him: "Why do you lie? You are responsible for killing of thousands of people. Afghans hate you." Only Najib could hear these sentences. They had such an affect on Najib that he lost the thread of ‘his words and started to talk about things not relevant to the question. Those interviewing him witnessed his odd behavior but did not know what the reason was. The journalist told me he did not regret what he did. Najib deserved such treatment for die lies he was trying to pass on to the viewers he said/
Jami'at's office in Paris has played an important role in informing people of devel opments in Afghanistan. The office was opened in 1983. Humayoun Tander was toe first head of the office. This office organized several visits of Prof. Rabbani France during one of which he was received by toe Prime Minster of France. This office also organized a tour of Prof. Rabbani to four countries of West Africa. The office hosted many commanders visiting France and was involved in providing training for young Mujahideen cameramen The office helped Western journalists to visit Afghanistan.
The Paris office introduced the Afghan Jehad to South and Centra] America through contact with anti-communist groups in the area. These groups translated Jami’at publications, especially AFGHANews, into Spanish for distribution among people.
to