AFGHANews Vpl7, No 18, September 15,1991, page ©
Respect follows service
A dervish was once sitting alone, meditating in a patch of desert. A ruler passed by. The dervish, being free from the cares of this world, neither lifted his head nor paid any attention. The ruler, with the violent pride of power, was furious and said: " These dervishes in their patched cloaks are no better than animals!"
His minister scolded the dervish and said: "The great ruler of all the world passed by and you did not stand and bow; why were you so rude?"
The dervish replied: "Tell your king to expect those people to bow who hope for some reward from him. Tell him that rulers are there to protect their people. The people were not created just to obey rulers. The ruler is the watchman of the poor, though he has greater wealth and glory. The sheep are not made for the shepherd, rather the shepherd is there to save the
Alexander the Greek was once asked: "How did you conquer the kingdoms of the West and of the East? For many kings before you were not able to make such conquests, even though they were richer and older than you and possessed vaster territories and greater treasure."
Ex-monarch suffers from heart disease
According a reliable source, the former king Mohammad Zahir Shah who lives in exile in Rome, Italy, has been suffering from a heart disease since many years. The source said the former monarch was hospitalized in a hospital in Rome sometime ago and his doctors have advised him not to travel to places higher than 2,000 meters from the sea level.
Some foreign countries and a group of Afghans propose Zahir Shah as the head of a neutral administration for a transitional period.
Afghanistan is situated at a high altitude making it unsuitable for him to assume the leadership
sheep. Look around you: today you see one man carefree and successful, the other struggling sore-hearted to survive. Wait a day or two, and see how the earth devours the brain once troubled with so many foolish thoughts! When the irresistible decrees of Fate are issued, neither king nor slave remain. Open up the tomb and search these dusty bones: can you tell which was the rich man or which the pauper?”
The ruler was struck by the words of the dervish. He said: " Ask me a favor!"
The dervish replied: "I would ask you never to disturb me again."
The king begged: "Give me a word
of advice!"
The dervish replied: "Now that wealth is in your hands, realize before it is too late, that this wealth and this power pass from hand to hand."
Alexander replied: "By the grace of God, whenever I conquered a country, I did not mistreat the common people nor did I ever refer to their rulers except in terms of respect "
If you cavil at great men, the wise will never call you great.
Fortune, thrones, commanding and forbidding, fighting and possessing, all these things pass as if they had been nothing. Do not slight the good name of those who have gone before, so that your good reputation may live once you are gone.
News from battlefields
1 From page (2)	]
August 24. One Mujahid was killed during the operation.
•On August 28, the Mujahideen attacked a column of enemy tanks which were going from Chekhcheran to Shahrak to reinforce the regime garrison there. They destroyed 15 tanks. Fighting still continued when this report was filed.
Badghis Province
Haji Akhtar, a militia commander, defected to the Mujahideen of Jami'at along with his 20 men on September 2, Commander Mawlawi Ebrahim reported. They brought with them 20 Kalashnikov rifles, two P.K machine1 guns and two RPG-7 rocket launchers.
Faryab Province
•The Mujahideen killed or wounded 75 enemy troops and destroyed two tanks when they attacked the Shurab Baig Battalion in Juma Bazar on August 16, Commander Hafizullah Arbab reported. The Mujahideen seized 150 Kalashnikov rifles, nine P.K machineguns, two mortars, one 122 mm gun and two radio sets.
•About 200 armed regime militiamen under the command of Najibullah defected to the Mujahideen in Jumabazar on Septeirfbpr 14.
Badakhshan Province
The Kabul regime jets bombed Duraim valley ' of Badakhshan Province, on August 29 killing eight people. Commander Sayyed Amir reported. Bombing also caused material losses to the people of the valley.
	
liiilSS
r «'
lejsGodJ The One and Only^^H God, the Eternal, Absolute; He hegetteth not, j|or is He begotten; - -
Like unto him.
■	Holy Quran	tS.CXM.J

lllli
world conquered though hearts