Vol 7, No 1
j f f X £ f C) A
"	^ U	1) 0	c.
January 1,1991
Shevardnadze quits office
Soviet Foreign Minister Edvard Shevardnadze resigned on December 20 because of problems within the Soviet government over reforms.
His resignation surprised many people at home and abroad because he was considered a close friend of Gorbachev and a strong supporter of perestroika. He warned the congress of People’s Deputies in Moscow that dictatorship was coming.
Shevardnadze's resignation has raised questions about a possible change in Soviet foreign policy, and its implication on unresolved issues like the Afghan problem. Gorbachev has said that Shevardnadze's resignation would not change Soviet foreign policy.
Shevardnadze had a role in the decision to withdraw Soviet troops from Afghanistan. But Moscow's military, economic and political support for the Kabul regime continued after the troop withdrawal.
Shevardnadze discussed Afghan issues with James Baker many times. They reported making. progress towards finding a political solution to the problem. One of such talk was held in Houston, Texas, recently. It was expected that the two sides would agree to stop sending arms and ammunition to the two sides of the conflict. But due to some differences on the issue, the agreement was postposned.
Gorbachev has not yet appointed a new Foreign Minister, but two ranking Soviet diplomats are thought to be candidates for the job. The first is Yevgri Primakov, a senior Soviet expert on the Middle East Primakov was involved in developing the Geneva Accords signed by the Kabul regime and Pakistan and sponsored by the US and USSR.
The second candidate is Yuli Vorontsov, the USSR envoy to the UN. ■Vorontsov was Soviet Ambassador to Kabul during and after the Soviet troop withdrawal from Afghanistan.
UN criticizes human rights records of Kabul regime
The Kabul regime was among the three countries singled out by the UN General Assembly for human rights abuses on December 18. The two other countries were Iraq and El Salvador.
In an interview with VOA, Dr. Felix Ermacora, the UN special reporter on human rights in Afghanistan, said despite some improvement in human rights in Afghanistan after the Soviet troop withdrawal, there are still major problems in that country. He said there were jive million Afghans living as refugees outside their country. They form one third of the world's refugee population.
He said during his last trip to Afghanistan that he visited the areas controlled by Mujahideen for the first time. Comparing the situation in the liberated areas with those in the cities controlled by the Kabul regime he said the Kabul regime did not tolerate its opponents and fought them with full force. In Pakistan, he visited refugee camps, hospitals and clinics to talk to the people.
Dr. Ermacora said there were 3,000 political prisoners in Kabul and there was practically no free press there. He met with some organizations which were allowed to express their opinions, but those who wanted to form opposition groups woe not safe from

finnounc ing:
AFGHANews enters the 7th year of its service to Jehad
government persecution
He visited Pul-i-Chaikhi prison, which he described as the worst prison in West Asia. Although there were some improvement in prison conditions, the situation was far below from what the UN recommended, he said
The UN reporter said the Kabul regime described the prisoners as criminal terrorists and its security organizations dealt with the political prisoners. The situation of prisoners who were still being interrogated was very difficult.
He said despite constitutional provisions for the participation of all sec tions of people in political activities, in practice such a thing did not exist because the opponents of regime feared persecution.
The UN reporter said freedom of religion is exercised in Kabul and he did not receive any complaints about restrictions on the practice of religion. (Ermacora's view about freedom of religion in Kabul is based on a purely ’western interpretation of religion which is limited to personal belief and worship. For Muslims, however, relig ion is a complete way of life. Allowing a Muslim to say his prayers does not return to him his full religious freedom.)
Of human, rights in the areas con trolled by the Mujahideen, he said there were some low ranking resistance people who prevented refugees from returning to their homes. This might be in contradiction with the program of their leaders, but at low level such things were taking place. He said the Mujahideen had prisons in the liberated areas but he had not been able to visit them. When asked how the Mujahideen treated their prisoners, he said the situation varied from place to place but it was a fact that they had prisons and prisoners.
The UN reporter said the Afghan war was a forgotten war and Afghans were forgotten people, because world public opinion was not interested in Afghanistan anymore.