—  —- AFGHANews Vol 5, No24, December 15,1989, page @
v ■	.	'' ■ ■	'	V
News
From the battlefields _________ • •-
Kunduz province
Kabul regime forces attacked Goor Taipa to establish security posts in the area on November 19.
Nineteen enemy soldiers were captured, 100 killed and 80 wounded. The enemy lost 14 trucks and two tanks. Regime forces failed to establish themselves in the area.
The united forces of the Mujahideen have been fighting under the command of Arif Khan, Jami'at commands in Kunduz.
Nine Mujahideen, including Muhammad Nasir, Commander Arifs brother, were killed and 25 Mujahideen were wounded.
On November 25, the Mujahideen shot down an enemy jet with a ZPU machine gun.
Faryab province
Two jeeps and one communication vehicle were destroyed and 15 enemy soldiers were killed when an enemy supply convoy, on its way to Maimana, the provincial capital of Faryab, was ambushed by Mujahideen from Jami'at in Sheerin Tagab district on November 21.
The Mujahideen captured two enemy officers and seized three guns and one wireless set
The Mujahideen have shot down three enemy helicopters with Stinger missiles near the city of Maimana. Fighting around the city continues.
Balkh province
Mujahideen from Jami’at under the command of Moalim Atta have liberated the Ulang and Balabad villages in Hajdah Nahr district. The Mujahideen captured 20 soldiers.
Two Mujahideen were killed and five Mujahideen, including a junior commander were wounded.
On November 20, the Mujahideen destroyed 15 enemy post in Khairabad area, east of Daulatabad district The Mujahideen captured 35 soldiers and seized one tank, one mortar, one PK machine gun, one rocket launcher and 50 Kalashnikov rifles.
An unknown number of enemy soldiers were killed or wounded. The Miijhideen have fired rockets into the Dehdadi airport and headquarters of the regime's 18th division, setting some targets on fire.
The Mujahideen have captured an enemy post in the Bahauddin area of Balkh, seizing 80 Kalashnikov rifles and one PK machine gun. The Mujahideen have, also captured one Goryunov machine gun and one rocket launcher from the Khairabad area.
Mazari-i-Sharif is a well-protected city, where SCUD missile launch sites are located. Targets around Kabul have been hit from Mazar. Mazar airport has a large number of warplanes and a pilot training school. Mazar is also used as the supply center for the regime. Goods brought from the Soviet Union are stored there before sent to other destinations.
Baghlan province
Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Adbul Hai Haqjo attacked the enemy position at Tolay Keran, capturing three posts on December 5th. Eleven soldiers were killed and ten were captured.
Commander Dur Muhammad and two Mujahideen were also killed in the operation. The Mujahideen have captured some weapons and ammunition. The area attacked is close to the old city of Baghlan.
The Mujahideen shot down a MiG-27 jet fighter with a Stinger missile when it was bombing the Hasantal area
of Baghlan.
Takhar province
The Mujahideen have attacked enemy positions in Khwaja Ghar district with heavy weapons, killing and wounding 30 soldiers. Khwaja Ghar came under enemy control two months ago.
Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Piram Qul attacked the militia forces of Mirza Abdur Rahim in Rustaq on December 7. No details are available.
Rustaq. a district on the Soviet border, is partially controlled by militias belonging to the SAZA faction of the communist regime in Kabul.
Paktia province
Commander Jalaluddin Haqqani reported that his Mujahideen shot down an enemy transport plane near Khost on December 3.
Ningarhar province
\
A senior commander of Hezb Islami (Khalis) was killed by a land mine in Samarkhail area during fighting on November 2. On the same day the Mujahideen shot down a regime jet.
A Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) commander died in Peshawar on December 5 while he was being treated for injuries caused by a i artillery shell.
The two commanders had played a key role in fighting around Jalalabad.
Arms dealer faces trial
An arm smuggler, who attempted to buy a wire-guided Soviet rocket and take it out of Afghanistan was captured in the Panjshir valley one month ago.
The arm dealer wanted to buy the captured rocket at a price of 220,000 Afghani and smuggle to Pakistan.
This wire-guidetf rocked was used by the Soviet army against the Mujahideen. The arm dealer who is a residence of Kapisa province, had said that he was trying to take weapons to Pakistan to sell to some foreigners interested in acquiring this weapon.
The Council does not allow any dealing of aims in its territory. Cheap price of weapons in the North has attracted the attention of arm dealers.
The dealer will tried in a court and if found guilty will be sentenced to jail.