AFGHANews Vol 7, No 14, July 15,1991, page ©
Battlefields
;;;;___- - «88
Herat Province
• The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed two oiemy soldiers, captured four and seized five Kalashnikov rifles, one Goryunov machinegun and some ammunition in Girdab village of Enjeel District 9 The Mujahideen of Jami'at destroyed one tank and two tracks and set on fire an ammunition dump when they attacked regime positions west of Zindajan with ground-to-ground rockets on July 2« More than 40 enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded in the operation.
9 One enemy tank and two trucks were destroyed and 20 enemy soldiers were killed and four were injured when the Mujahideen attacked their positions west of Zindajan with rockets on July 3.
On the same day, the Mujahideen of the Afzali Front killed seven enemy soldiers and wounded 15 in Taryak village, east of the city of Herat.
On the same day, the Mujahideen, of Jami'at under the command of Haji Sayid Jan killed five enemy soldiers and wounded several others in the Mazar area of Shindand. Four Mujahideen were killed and five were injured in the operation.
9 The Mujahideen killed three enemy soldiers and wounded two when they attacked their positions with 82 mm recoilless rifles opposite Qala-i-Mulki in Zindajan on July 5.
On the same day, two trucks were destroyed and some enemy personnel were either killed or wounded in Zindajan.
Three enemy soldiers woe killed and four were injured in Qala-i-Ezat of Zindajan with heavy weapons. The Mujahideen also killed three enemy soldiers in Qala-i-Naw area of Zindajan.
9 Five enemy soldiers were killed or wounded in Qala-i-Naw area of
Zindajan on June 6 by land mines planted by die Mujahideen.
Two soldiers were killed by the Mujahideen in Khwaja Ha area. The Mujahideen killed or wounded 25 enemy soldiers when they fired rockets into their positions arouikl Zindajan.
Jauzjan Province
Four soldiers were killed and six wore wounded when die Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked an enemy post in Dolam village. The Mujahideen captured the post and seized one rocket launcher, dozens of Kalashnikov rifles and some ammunition. Two Mujahideen were wounded in the operation. .
Parwan Province
The Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council destroyed 16 tanks, 17 trucks, two BM-14 rocket launchers and 16 posts, and killed or wounded dozens of enemy soldiers in three days of fighting, beginning on July 9, in Salang, Jabulseraj and around Charikar. Here are the details of the operations:
9 The Mujahideen captured five Kalashnikov rifles and one P.K machinegun in Ofiyan ,' a village close to Charikar, the provincial capital of Pairwan province, on July 9.
9 On July 10, the Mujahideen launched the follpwing operations: .
The Mujahideen attacked , enemy installations in Division No. 2 in Jabulseraj, setting on fire an ammunition dump. The dump burned for two hours, killing six officers and five soldiers and causing heavy material losses to the enemy.
In Liwan, inside the Salang Valley, two mobile workshops, one tank, two. posts and one supply truck were destroyed . Three regime officers ‘were killed and six were injured and four rooms of a military residential quiarter were damaged.
In Baghi-Maidan, inside Salang , two tanks, two Kamaz trucks and three security posts were destroyed.
In Oraty, inside Salang , four bunkos of the 64th brigade, six supply trucks and one tank were destroyed.
9 On July 11, the Mujahideen launched die following operations:
In Jabulseraj, the Mujahideen destroyed two trucks and one tank, killed two officers and four soldiers and inflicted heavy material losses on the headquarters of 64th Brigade.
In Olang, six tanks and three bunkers woe destroyed.
In Qalatak of Salang, three tanks and four supply trucks of the enemy were destroyed.
The Mujahideen also set on fire an ammunition dump of the Division No. 2 which caused heavy kisses in men and material. Two tanks and two BM-14 rocket launchers woe destroyed by die explosion of the ammunition dump.
Aerial attacks against the Mujahideen and Mujahideen attacks against the enemy targets continued when this report was filed. The Salang road is blocked. Salang is the life-line of the regime through which food, fuel, arms and ammunition are brought from the Soviet Union to Kabul.
This is the second major attack on the Salang highway by the Supervisory Council since the beginning of the current year. Blocking Salang will have a negative effect on the military activities of the Kabul regime in major parts of Afghanistan.
As a result of mounting pressure on the enemy in the past month, 40 armed soldiers stationed in the area have defected to the Mujahideen.
Wardak Province
The Kabul regime's offensive, launched one month ago, against the Mujahideen in Maidan Shar, 30 kilom eters weft of Kabul, still continues.
Kabul troops have succeeded in capturing Puli Surkh, 15 kilometers south of Maidan Shar, and Shah Kabul. The Mujahideen resisted the enemy troops, inflicting heavy losses on them So far, more than 40 tanks and 10C trucks have been destroyed and two jets have been shot down. Casualties of the enemy are estimated to be more than 1000 dead and wound.
The Kabul regime heavily bombs the villages around Maidan Shar. About 40 Mujahideen and 150 civilians have been martyred.
A large number of people have taken refuge in the neighboring areas and Maidan Shar is deserted. The
19* To page ( 3)