AFGHANews Vol 6, No 15, August 1, 1990, page ©
Dear price of wrong choice
A little man got a pain in his eyes. He went to a vet for a remedy. The vet gave him what he used for animals. The man became blind and complained to the magistrate. The judge said: "Case dismissed! if this fellow had not been an ass, he would not have gone to the vet/'
The moral of this story is that whoever employs an inexperienced person on an important matter will regret it and will be considered a fool. The wise man never entrusts an important business to a fool.
A weaver of straw mats is a weaver but not of fine silks.
Rich, poor argue in graveyard
I saw a rich man's sol sitting by his father's tomb, disputing with the son of a poor man, saying "My father's monument is of stone, the inscription is in gp.f, with marble and turqoise-glazed tiles. What is your father's grave but a couple of bricks and a handful of earth?" The son of the poor man answered:" Before your father can move from under this heavy stone, mine will have reached paradise."
There is a saying of the Prophet: "To the poor, death is a state of rest." The ass who carries the lightest baggage travels easiest. So the poor man who bears the burden of poverty will enter the gate of death lightly loaded; while he who lives in affluence, with ease and comfort, will doubtless find death terrible. And, however you look at it, the prisoner who is released, is happier than the nobleman who is taken prisoner.
Be moderate in your behavior
Unreasonable anger causes terror; unseaonable kindness undermines authority. Never be so severe as to drive people away nor so lenient that they take liberties with you. Severity and leniency are better balanced; the surgeon both cuts and binds. A reasonable man is neither habitually severe nor weak, but maintains his own dignity. He is neither pompous nor ingratiatingly humble.
A shepherd boy asked his father: "Give me some advice from the store of your experience." The father replied: "Be generous but keep the ravenous wolf at bay."
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
•	jy*	Ij
The sieve says to strainer, "You have holes."
Meaning: Used of a guilty person who finds fault with others.
. <j-f uw) ill jl Ijwtf
You can't clap with one hand.
Meaning: (a) It takes two to make fight
(b) Many hands make light work; or, in union there is strength.
i
■iS}>	jt#
The onions you serve with affection have value.
Meaning: Better is a dinner of heroes where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.
(Oh) empty hand you are my own enemy.
Meaning: For Satan finds some mischief still for idle hands to do.
Watts
Student drowned
Tellah Mohammad Abidi, 28, an Afghan refugee, was drowned in Kabul river while swimming on July 14.
He was a fourth year student of King Fahd Petrolium University in Saudi Arabia. He had come to Peshawar to visit his family which lives in Pakistan.
Abidi studied at the Afghan Institute of Technology in Kabul. Abdul Basir, a classmate of his, described him as an industrious student with a good character. He was a regular reader of AFGHANews
Abidi hailed from Bagram district in Parwan province.


IMIlIiilllllil
Narrated Hudhaifa:

ill
111!!
!!:!
The Prophet (Peace upon him) said,
Dibaj, tor these things are. tor them (unbelievers) in this world and for you
"	i:"!?'	!!!.	!|f
mthe Hereafter.'*
*
	
glllglP