AFGHANews Vol 8, No 13, July 1, 1992, page ©
Hikmatyar rejects Masood's peace offer
na misgivings aboirt this.
Hikmatyar: I want to say that honesty and sincerity are needed. Let us be honest, put aside desire for personal achievements and a desirable share! If the nation entrusts us with power, wc should scrvc_them, and if it rejects us, wc should not try to grab power through immoral means.
Masood: I agree with the formation of a pure Islamic and transitional government. The most suitable way to form a permanent government is holding of elections. As you .said, the nation will choose their leader. We arc not trying to get special concession for Jami'al and, do not want to. highlight what wc have done. It is important that you, the leaders; should agree on an interim government for six months or one year ; and then elections should be held. Do you still insist that military operation be launch against Kabul?
Hikmatyar: If an agreement is reached in Peshawar and power is transferred to this government, we do not feci the need for attack. If these things arc not done, wc will do what is good for our country.
Masood: Thank.you. If we had something in mind, we would have implemented it the first days. We are waiting for the leaders to agree on an interim government so that the way for holding elections is eledr. I am strongly in favor of holding elections because it solves mosi of the problems.
Hikmatyar: An agreement today will prevent unwanted incidents to hap- . pen. I do not have anything further to say. If you have nothing else to. say, I say Goodbye.
Masood: I have things to say. You have threatened to attack. Kabul on Sunday. I want to state clearly that your attack will result in confrontation between the Mujahideen. The entry of one faction will prompt entry of other Mujahideen groups into Kabul. The chaotic situation created by forced entry will lead to clashes between the Mujahideen.
I request you to cancel the attack;. go to Peshawar; sit with the leaders and solve the issue through talks. Time spent on this work is not wasted. I want your assurance that there will be no attack on Kabul on Sunday. I assure you from our side that we will not take any unilateral action.
Hikmatyar: When the threat was made, necessary directions were given ■ to all fronts. If a new situation has not been created to convince individual Mujahideen that the need for an operation docs not exist anymore, we will
| From page (7) ____________________j
not be able to postpone or hasten the attack. 1 am sure that no infighting will take place. No clashes have taken place between Mujahideen in other pans of Afghanistan and will not lake place in Kabul. If we fight, wc will fight against KHAD, militias and forces serving communists. 1 am not attacking Panjshir.
Masood: Wc may talk differently but cannot ignore Lhc realities. I say that clashes wilt take place and hundreds of Muslims will die. It is a good idea to solve this problem through talks and noL through military means.
' Hikmatyar: I have said what I wanted to say.
,Masood: This means that you will launch an attack on Sunday and I should prepare myself!
Hikmatyar: Prepare for what?
Masood: Prepare to defend the people of Kabul, the women of Kabul, elders and minors of Kabul. Prepare to defend this oppressed people who seek refuge to God. I am obliged to defend these people against any attack.
Hikmatyar: It is strange that you say you arc preparing to defend the people of Kabul. Our decision has not changed. If power is not transferred from this criminal band in Kabul to the government formed by the Mujahideen or council of commanders from around Kabul, I have to carry out my threat.
Masood: You proposed several points and I agreed with them. Wc agreed on pure Islamic interim government and holding of elections. Despite all these, you have fixed a deadline for attack. After agreement on' major points, there is nor need for attack. Prof. Rabbani has expressed his support for these points. Leaders arc meeting in Peshawar to reach an agreement I do not see the need for launching attack on Kabul on Sunday.
Hikmatyar: Hezb has not fixed a deadline for an attack on Charikar. It has fixed the deadline for attack on Kabul which is still ruled by criminal elements. Your agreement through wireless is not enough. Furthermore you cannot represent Jami'al. Hczb and Jami’at should agree on formation of an administration and all Mujahideep forces accept thaL
Masood: I can assure you pn behalf of all Jami'at that we are in favor of formation of an interim government which is not limited to Hczb and Jami'at. Others have also taken pan in Jehad and the government should be acceptable to them. Why do not you go
and sit down with Ustaz (Rabbani) and find a solution together?
Hikmatyar: You can come and discuss the problem among us. Ustaz cannot decide by himself.
Masood: Ustaz is the leader. I announce that any decision made by Ustaz will be acceptable to me.
Hikmatyar: There is no problem from our side. Our representative participates in the talks-with full authority.
Masood: Wc arc-wailing.for you, the leaders, to decide.
Hikmatyar: I will consult the commanders around Kabul. I have one suggestion for you: if you want to fight, do not stand by the side of Azimi, Rashid Dostum and General Momen. If fighting starts, come and stand beside your Mujahideen brothers and we will provide security for the people of Kabul together. Instead of cooperation with your Mujahideen to rule Parwan and Bagram jointly, you cooperate with Momen and militiamen. We should try to reach an agreement today and tomorrow. I consult my brothers and see what can I do.
Masood: 1 have learned these ways, from my ciders, those who stood by General Tanai. The situation is not the way you described it. You should enquire about the situation from your commanders. Two months ago, I sent some Arab brothers to them, inviting them to take part in joint military action. They returned disappointed and reported that your commander were not ready to cooperate.- -
Your commanders asked for Lhc delegation to go thcre. Your commanders proposed a 22 item agenda concerning secondary issues. There was no mention of coordinated action against the regime.
After liberation of Bagram, I sent-another delegation to your commanders proposing that advance towards Kabul be planned jointly. They said they will answer after consultation with you. Today is the third day for which I have waited for their answer.
Hikmatyar: I was aware of your contact with the brothers, and the message you had sent through Prof. Rabbani reached me. I told Prof. Rabbani that Jami'al and Hezb must first solve all problems and then direct their commanders to form joint forces. How could wc direct the commanders in one area, to form joint forces?
About Tanai, I should say the difference is between sky and earth. Wc did not fight under his command. He defected to the Mujahideen and he was given protection.