                        --- liMJIMM mu*. *11IL in, IW.21,                                  g
    The enemy has also suffered heavy casualties Many Soviets have lost their lives for a poor cause. The Soviets are paving a high political price for their invasion A country which once boasted to be the defenders of oppressed nations in their struggle for liberation, committed an act of aggression The overwhelming support for the UN resolutions asking for the withdrawal of the Soviets is a clear sign of disapproval for [  the adventurist policies pursued by Moscow The Soviet Union is not considered to be \
 ; the natural ally of the Third World countries The bulk of Third World intellectuals are
 I becoming more critical of Soviet expan tionist politics This »sa high price to be paid for
    a country which wants to spread its inftuence around the globe
                                                                                                                  !
    Despite ail their losses the enemy is not yet ready to stop killing Afghans and burning their villages The Soviet leaders are determined to win the war
    Eight years is a long tune We want peace, we need peace and we dream for peace But * peace will only come if the Soviets leave Afghanistan and its people are given the right- j to determine their future.                                                      |
    Wo hate the war War has killed oor mothers sisters, fathers and brothers War has ’ J burned our villages towns, mosques and holy books. We want the v'ar 10 come to an end to start a new life in a free country where Afghans are their own masters'This is a natural right if every nation to live free and choose the type of government which is
    suitable to them
    The question if. will Gorbachev let that happen'’ Will he withdraw his invading forces from Islamic Afghanistan?The key is in his hand. Only his action will give the answer
    to the above questions.
    If he chooses to win the war and enslave Afghans he must know that he is mistaken Afghans can die but can not accept slavery
                           THIRD WORLD SOCIAL FORCES SUPPORT AFGHAN
                                                  MUJAHIDEEN
                                                                                                                  I
                U I A participates in Latin America Congress)
    Jamiat Islami Afghanistan's Representative in France Mr Hamayoun Tandar. participated in the 9th congress of the Latin American Center of Workers I CL AT) in
    Mai del Plata city of Argentina
        '                                                                           I
    CLAT is the largest Latin American trade union The congress was convened from November 22 to November 29, I9£? About 700 delegations from 20 Latin American countries took part in the congress
    Jami at I slam i Afghanistan was invited to participate in the congress as an observer The invitation and the status granted were the result of JI.A's political activities I including prof Rabbani's trip to Africa in 19S6 and Jamiat'$ contact with the j governments and social forces of Latin American countries
    Prof Burhanoddin Rabbam s message was delivered to the congress Hamayoun Tandar also gave a moving speech at Solidarity Night on November 25 His speech was received with frequent applause and expressions of support
 | J I A s Representative also participated in the fourth conference on Worker s Rights
 j and Human Rights in Mardel Plata University A few major points of his speech at the
 ! conference are noted below
 !
      Man s first basic right is to live In our country. Afghanistan, about one and half million people have been martyred by the invading forces so far Thus, the first principle of human rights has been blatantly violated.
 i