RF8HRN HEUS UOL.III,, HO. I, 1/1/196? PR6E 2
Prof. Rabbani described the military-political situation in Afghanistan to his host. Mentioning the sufferings of the people of Afghanistan, he said, "So far one million people have died and five million people have become refugees in neighbouring countries. 75% of all the villages and towns have been destroyed. Still the Soviets are busy killing people and destroying the country". Talking about the Soviets propaganda Professor said." They talk about withdrawal of their forces but in reality they are escalating the war” About the will of the people of Afghanistan to continue their struggle he said," They can burn our houses and destroy our villages and towns and kill our innocent people but cannot weaken our will and determination to continue our struggle till victory Prof. Rabbani stressed the need for a strong political support to Afghan cause by the African countries and underlined the role Senegal can play in this respect.
President Diouf assured Prof. Rabbani of the continuation of support to the Afghan cause . He disapproved of the genocidal policy of the Soviets in Afghanistan The. president agreed on principle that an Information Bureau of the Mujahideen should be opened in Dakar
On the way back from Africa, Prof. Rabbani paid a two days official visit to Belgium. On December 13, he met the Prime Minister of Belgium and on 16 the Foreign Minister of that country. The sides discussed military and political situation in Afghanistan. Prof. Rabbani stressed the need for humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan who are facing severe difficulties
Afghan News believes that the trip to Africa was very successful. The people in the third world countries are in a good position to understand our situation. These types of trips increases the awareness of the masses about the situation in Afghanistan. If it is done properly and regularly the political pressure on the the Soviets will increase and they have to pay a higher price for their aggression. Afghanistan belongs to the Muslim world which is part of the third world. Political work in these countries must be
a proirity for our political struggle.
                                         NEWS FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS

                                       OAND A BAR PROVINCE
3/12/1986. Mujahideen from Jami at under the command of Mullah Naqib attacked the Soviet-Puppet base in Sofi Alaiur Rah&ma. about 4 Km. North of Qandahar city with BM-12 rockets. 14 APCs and trucks were destroyed and 20 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded.