                           MAZAR_PROVINCE
Shortly after the martyrdom of Commander Zabihullah of Jamiat, Mujahideen of Mazar launched a series of operations in and around the city of Balkh* Zabihullah was martyred On 14 Dec. with eight of his Mujahideen at Shoulgar while returning from an anti-Soviet operation. The latest report reports confirm that Zabihulla's Jeep ran over an anti-tank mine which had planted by Russian stooges.
The report assures us after the death of their Commander, the Mujahideen from Jamiat. have intensified their actions against the enemy and have inflicted heavy' losses on Soviet-Karmal forces.
Jan-4-1985..
The building in which Communist party members were living was destroyed by a mine, planted by urban Mujahideen of Mazar. There were many casualties and 50 party members were, killed.
Jan-5;85
Karmal-Russian forces landed a large number of troops by many helicopters in the areas of Kaladiwalak, Kalaqudogh, Kalagurimurdd,Kalakou and Janawar Khana of Marmoul. According to the report the enemy forces wanted to destroy Mujahideen bases at Marmool and its surrounding: areas•
Clashes throughout the area between Mujahideen and enemy forces continued for five. days. Eventually the Mujahideen were able to inflict heavy losses on the enemy and force them to withdraw.
The report says that in retaliation the Russians killed many civilians including six shepherds at Karghazi located between the city of Mazar and Marmool .
Another unconfirmed report from the city hospital says that Eorries carried wounded Russian-Karmal soldiers to the hospital
Jan-15-85
Urban Mujahideen from Mazar assassinated Sarmoalim Raouf a well-known and effective servant of the. Russians. He was the head of the council of the Father Land Front. - ...
The report says that the Russians consider his death a great Joss to the Communists and the Russians.He was killed in his house near Guz-ari Sia in the city of Mazar, He was a. bad. man who was in direct contact with the. Russians.
Jan-16-85
Two strategic government outposts at Guzari Marmool and Guzari Quba-dian have been captured by urban Mujahideen of Mazar. These two outposts which were located in the city of Mazar contained 30-35 soldiers