AFGHANews Vol 5, No 20, October 15, 1989, page Q
We fight to change system, not to replace individuals
Getting rid of communist rule was the aim of the Mujahideen, who began armed struggle against the Taraki regime before the Soviet invasion, and who fight on to achieve that same goal.
Armed struggle against oppressive communist rule started two years before the Soviet invasion. Afghans could not accept a bunch of Godless communists to lead them and impose on them the Soviet way of life. After the failure of peaceful means, war became inevitable.
The Soviet Union, which was behind the communists and supported their programs, saw that the regime was unable to stand against the Afghan people, even though they fought with primitive weapons. The Soviet leaders made the historic mistake of sending the Red Army to save their friends.
After the Soviet troop withdrawal Afghans were not allowed to determine their future by choosing a system of government suitable to them. The Soviets wanted to impose the regime which they had brought to power in December of 1979. They gave it sophisticated weapons, financial assistance and diplomatic support. A large number of Soviet advisors still help the regime to fight against the Mujahideen.
During the ten years of Soviet occupation Afghans enjoyed the political and moral support of most of the world. UN, NAM, OIC ancj EEC resolutions called for the withdrawal of Soviet troops and the right of Afghans to determine their future. These demands were repeated year after year.
The withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan was an important step, but it did not result in an opportunity for Afghans to determine their own future.
The continuation of communist rule in Kabul is morally wrong. This regime was brought to power by the Soviet army and played the role of a local guide for the invaders. It does not have the right to lead the freedom-loving people of Afghanistan. Afghans consider Khalqis and Perchamis to be war criminals who should be tried. This is normal treatment for those who join a foreign enemy against their own people. The Communists have permanently disqualified themselves from Afghan politics.
There are ideological considerations which do not allow the Mujahideen to make peace with communists in Kabul. How could a bunch of Godless communists become leaders of Muslims? On ideological grounds, no Mujahideen party can accept any kind of power-sharing with the communists. One should not be deceived by the recent Islamic appearance of the communists. These are tactical moves to deceive the simple people. High brass of People Democratic Party are staunch unbelievers and'loyal servants of the Soviet Union.
Giving the communists another chance to play a role in the future of Afghanistan would be a political mistake. The survival of the communists as a political force will fulfill the purpose of the Soviet invasion. They could not achieve it militarily. We should not allow them to gain it through diplomatic means. Any deal with the Kabul regime, a tool of a neighboring superpower, will make permanent the Soviet interference in Afghan internal affairs.
Therefore, dismantling the Kabul regime is the only way to final victory and return of peace. When we talk about dismantling the regime we don't intend killing all who supported the regime. We are against the system. If the Khad, the police and the army of the communist regime are dismantled, the majority of its members can live a normal life under a new system chosen by the people.
Some circles propose that Najib resign as a step towards achieving peace. We believe that change of leadership does not resolve the issue. Soviets changed the leadership of the PDPA several times during the years of occupation but the regime did not become acceptable to the majority of Afghans.
The Mujahideen are fully aware of the danger of survival of the regime under
any name. They are determined not lay down arms until the final victory is achieved. This is not an easy choice but the consequences of compromise with the regime are more dangerous.
The demand of some countries, during the 44th General Assembly of the United Nations, that the solution to Afghan conflict lies in transferring power from Najib to a representative government, is a reflection of the true situation. Scud missiles, 40 plane-loads of weapons per day, the presence of thousand of Soviet advisors, cross-border operations and shelling Mujahideen positions cannot gain the regime popular support
The Soviet Union should not get the wrong impression from the regime's survival, for a few months, and from the hesitation of some foreign countries to support the Mujahideen. The present stalemate is gradually changing in favor of the Mujahideen. Hesitation on the part of some supporters of the Mujahideen will not decide the future of the war. The war started without outside support and can continue without it.
The previous Soviet leaders made the mistake of supporting a bunch of criminals, who did not hesitate to kill thousands of their people in their lust for power. The present leadership is repeating this mistake. The "new thinking" of Soviet leaders has not found its way into the Soviets’ Afghan policy.
Bhutto reaffirms support for AIG, rejects TV remark
Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, on returning from a state visit to Bangladesh, rejected the remarks of a BBC television documentary that she had asked the Mujahideen to start a dialogue with the Kabul regime.
She added that her government will give every support to the AIG short of recognition, noting that there are certain international norms and criteria which the AIG should meet before being recognized.
She stressed the need for broadening the base of the AIG by introducing other Mujahideen groups, Afghan personalities in exile, good Muslims and field commanders.
During her visit to Bangladesh, the prime minister had said that the hardliners in Kabul should step down to pave the way for formation of a broad-based government.