-AFGHANews Vol5, No 6,March 15, 1989, page 4
Editorial
Mujahideen enter into new phase of war
The fighting around Jalalabad and Salang give clues to the future pattern of the military developments in Afghanistan.
Najibullah's regime has survived at least one month without Soviet’s direct support It needs to be defeated through military action.
Developments also refute the assumption that the Mujahideen will march towards Kabul and each party will try to get control of Kabul before others.
Fighting against the regime has continued all over the country but in two areas, Jalalabad and Salang, the developments have been significant
Fighting along the Salang highway has continued for more than a month. The Mujahideen have not launched a massive attack against the enemy and fighting is done by the local Mujahideen groups along the highway. The Kabul regime has tried to keep the road open and even has gone on the offensive to push the Mujahideen away from the road without much success. Aerial and artillery bombardments of the area, especially the bases controlled by the Supervisory Council of the North, are the targes of this campaign.
In Jalalabad the Mujahideen have launched a massive attack to capture it. While fighting along the Salang highway is fought by the old guerrilla tactics, fighting against Jalalabad has turned into a conventional war. Massive troop concentrations and artillery duals are part of the Jalalabad campaign.
Hie fire power of the Mujahideen in Jalalabad is strong. But it will be a mistake to think of a similar fire power in other parts of the country because of insufficient numbers of weapons and shortages of ammunition.
The enemy is making extensive use of air power to push the Mujahideen out of their positions. There is an urgent need for more effective anti-air defense system to minimize the casualties and insure the victory.
The story that US government wants to take back some of the Stinger missiles came at a time when the Mujahideen were facing the enemy's aerial bombardments and a large number of casualties had been inflicted on them by the enemy air force.
If the story is true, it indicates lack of understanding of the military situation on the part of the American Administration. The war seems to be long and more Stinger missiles are needed to avoid a disaster.
The outcome of the Jalalabad campaign is of significant importance to both sides in the conflict If the city is captured in the near future, the enemy morale will fall further.
The fall of Jalalabad will be a military as well as a political victory for the Mujahideen who have setup an interim government.
If the war is prolonged, the enemy will claim that it repulsed the Mujahideen attack after the Soviet withdrawal.Therefore, both sides will try their best to win this battle.
This war is worth a close inspection because to the Mujahideen it is a new type of war and for the regime it is the first major battle fought after the Soviets withdrawal.
Fighting in Jalalabad is still fought on a regional base without being coordinated with fightings in the rest of the country. The enemy is not facing major attacks in the rest of the country. It will permit it to concentrate on Jalalabad and even to send reinforcements.
The Kabul-Jalalabad road was not blocked by the Mujahideen when they launched the major attack against Jalalabad. It indicates problems in coordination
Turn to page ( 6 )
Jami'at promotes wrestling in Exile
Two Afghan wrestlers have decided to promote wrestling among refugees by forming a club with the help of Jami'at .
Assadullah, 46, from Kabul and Abdul Baqi, 35, from Ningargar are the two trainers of Hazrat Ali wrestling club.
The club has 30 students 12 of whom are ready for competition with other teams.
In order to support their families, the two trainers have jobs. Assadullah is a tailor who makes fur coats and fur hats.
Assadullah is happy about the result of his work as a trainer. He said that his students contested four times last year, twice in Frontier province and twice in Punjab province. His team won the first position in Frontier Province and the second position in Punjab.
Assadullah said that wrestling was a popular sport in Afghanistan and Afghan wrestlers participated in International contests.
The famous wreslters of the Afghan national team before the war were Ahmad Jan, Ibrahim,Seddiq Zargar, Agha Shireen, Anwar, Jami'at commander in Sorobi district. Khalifa Nizam and Ameer Jan.
Hazrat Ali club is supported by the Education Committee of Jami'at Islami and the purpose of its establishment is to preserve a traditional Afghan sport.
When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan most of the wrestlers of the national team became refugees and some like commander Anwar, and Agha Shireen, who died three years ago, took arms to defend their country.
Asadullah said that his students practice four days a week and are taught new techniques once a week. Once a week the wrestlers lubricate their bodies and the club is closed on friday.
Asadullah said that his students are ready to participate in international wrestling contests and asked the Mujahideen leaders to pave the way for Afghan sportsmen to participate in international contests.