__________________________  AFGHANews	Vol5,	No	6,	March	15,1989, page 2
r
News
From the battlefields
- ______________ «
Salang
The Mujahideen repulsed an enemy attack against the Mujahideen in Hayjan, a side-valley of Salang on February 26. Eleven enemy soldiers were captured and an unknown number were killed in the attack.
On the same day, eight enemy soldiers joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at after killing the political commissar of their unit The defectors were stationed in Qala-i-Surkh at the mouth of the Salang valley .They brought with them eight guns.
On February 28, eight enemy soldiers based in Qala-i-Suikh defected to the Mujahideen in Salang bring with them six guns and two rocket launchers.
On March 3, the Mujahideen launched simultaneous attacks against the enemy positions in Salang, Jabul Seraj, Charikar. the provincial capital of Parwan, and Bagram air base. One post in Sangak area in Salang was captured. The enemy launched three counter-attacks to recapture the post but failed. In the course of fighting, 80 enemy soldiers were killed and 40 soldiers and officers were captured. The enemy also lost two tanks. Seven Mujahideen, three persons from Salang and four from Panjshir, were killed in the fighting.
The enemy garrisons in Jabul Seraj, Charikar and Bagram were pounded by the heavy weapons of the Mujahideen. The enemy losses could not be immediately estimated.
On the same day, the Mujahideen from Jami'at destroyed three tanks and two trucks of the enemy in Totom Dara at the mouth of Salang valley.
On March 7, the enemy attacked the Mujahideen positions in Salang. The Mujahideen had captured several posts along the road inside the valley and had brought two sections of the road under their control. The enemy has failed to drive the Mujahideen out of
their positions.
On March 11, fifteen soldiers defected to the Mujahideen bringing along their weapons.
On March 6, Captain Abdul Hakim Wardak the commander of a unit of a Special Guard of the regime was killed when the helicopter carrying him came under the Mujahideen attack in. Charikar, the provincial capital, of Parwan. A DShK bullet passing through the helicopter killed him.
In the past two weeks the areas controlled by Jami'at in flat and mountainous parts of Parwan and around Bagram airbase have been bombed by the enemy planes. Twenty civilians have been killed as a result of these bombardments.
Salang is also being bombed from the air and by artillery.
Balkh province
More than one hundred militiamen, headed by Abdullah Padarwatan, joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at on February 23. Hie group brought with it more than 100 rifles, one 76mm gun, three PK machine guns, one mortar and two trucks.
On March 4, the Mujahideen captured an enemy post around Mazar city. Six soldiers and one officer were killed and three soldiers were cap-tured.The Mujahideen seized nine rifles, two PK machine guns and one communication set of model R-105. One Mujahid was killed and two Mujahideen were injured in the operation.
Herat province
On February 17, more than one hundred militiamen surrendered to the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Dahna-i-Zulfiqar in Gulran district Dahna-i-Zulfiqar has common borders with Iran and Soviet Union.
On February 25, militia commander, Zia Khan, defected to the Mujahideen with his 40 men in Kariz Sufi, 2Km west of Herat city . They brought with them 50 Kalashnikov rifles and eight pistols.
On February 26, the Mujahideen from Jami'at shot down an enemy jet in Shindand area with a Stinger missile.
On the same day, three militiamen were killed and ten militiamen were wounded when the Mujahideen attacked their posts in the western part of the city of Herat. Three Mujahideen were martyred and one Mujahid was wounded in the operation.
Badghis province
Two hundred militiamen from Qadis district defected to the Mujahideen from Jami'at under Naik Mohammad, the chief commander of Badghis, on February 24. They brought with them the following weapons:
1.	More than 200 pieces of light weapons
2.	Twelve trucks and cars
3.	Four single barrel ZPU (14,5mm anti aircraft) guns.
4.	Eight DShK guns
By the defection of these militiamen Qadis district came under control of the Mujahideen.
Kabul province
Forty enemy soldiers were captured and 5 killed when the Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Mullah Ezat attacked an enemy post in Karaiz-e-Mir about 10 Kilometers north of the city on March 10.
The Mujahideen seizd 40 rifles, one BM-40 rocket launcher, one BM-14 rocket launcher and four R-105 wireless sets.
The Mujahideen from Jami'at destroyed two tanks and 15 trucks belonging to the enemy near Nopula of Qarabagh district on Salang high way on March 9.
Jawzjan Province
Ten enemy soldiers were captured, five soldiers were killed and four soldiers were injured when the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked their post 12 Kilometer away from Shiberghan city on February 9.
The Mujahideen destroyed the post and seized nine guns and one pistol.
Turn to page ( 3 )