AFGHANews Vol5, No 2, January 15,1989,page 5
Who is who in the Mujahideen

om. Dad Mohammad
COMMANDER Dad Mohammad was bom 33 years ago in Sangeen district of Helmand province. His father was a merchant and an influential man in his community. "My father did not want me to go to the university. He wanted me and my other six bothers to just learn how to read and write and then follow practical life." said Dad Mohammad "So he sent me first to the nearest mosque to learn Islamic fundamentals and then to school." After completing nine years of school he became a shopkeeper in his home town.
Helmand is one of the South-West provinces of Afghanistan. It is important for Kandahar as a retreat base and for Herat and Badghis provinces as a supply route. "I help hundreds of Mujahideen of Herat and Badghis every year. My Mujahideen provide security for them by not allowing the enemy to ambush their convoys going through Sangeen area." said Dad Mohammad who has come to Peshawar to talk to the relief organizations about provision of relief assistance to the people in the area.
Dad Mohammad started to organize a small group of people in Sangeen in 1979 to fight against the communist regime of Taraki. He was jailed by the regime authorities in Sangeen for four months. "My father bribed the government officials and released me from central jail in Kandahar." said Dad Mohammad.
After being released he resumed his struggle against the communists. "Day by day my group was getting larger. Every one was trying to get weapon and fight against the communists. Since we were not experienced our casualties were higher. I lost 15 members of my family including my brother in the early stages of the war." said Dad Mohammad.
Dad Mohammad came to Peshawar in late 1979 to meet Prof. Rabbani who appointed him as Jami'at commander in the Helmand province. "I bought 26 shotguns and one hundred thousand rounds of ammunition with my own money and took them to Sangeen. In a very short time we captured the garrisons in Sangeen, Musa Qala, Nawzad and captured a lot of weapons and ammunition." said Dad Mohammad.
Pushtoons are in absolute majority in the Helmand province. Dad Mohammad comes from one of the in-
fluential Pushtoon tribes. He says there are other parties which he has very good relations.. In the recent operations during which the Mujahideen captured many government posts and garrisons, all the Mujahideen fought together.
After the meeting of commanders in Saghar which was organized by Ismail Khan of Herat, Dad Mohammad worked hard to to organize himself better. "We have built a relatively good administration in the area to help civilian population. We have encouraged the people to cultivate their fields so that they should have enough food said Dad Mohammad. He added that since his district was strategically important, the Russians always bombed it and made fanning difficult.
He complained that he has received no help form the humanitarian organizations based in Peshawar.
A shopkeeper who started his Jehad with fifteen persons, ten years ago has more than 1500 Mujahideen under his command. He is married and has six children.
Food shortages in Badghis
SOVIET bombardments and insects have caused low farm products and food shortage in the border province of Badghis.
Abdul Karim, Jami'at commander in Badghis said that insects have caused damages to wheat product in the province. This and the Soviet bombardments, lack of proper seed and fertilizer all have contributed to the food shortage in the area.The people of Badghis bring their food from Herat
Islamabad talks
From page (1)
will take its troops out at the condition that ceasefire be observed and a dialogue between Afghans would begin. He never referred to February 15 as the deadline far troops withdrawal. -
The Soviet envoy admitted the presence of young Afghan children in the Soviet Union. He described them as orphans who were taken there to be looked after on humanitarian grounds. The resistance is asking the return of these children so that they should not undergo a brain-washing program by the Soviets.
The Soviet delegation hinted to the delivery of more sophisticated weapons to the regime if the resistance rejected the ceasefire and negotiation with PDPA.
The two sides agreed to continue discussion in the future. The time and place of the negotiations will be agreed upon by both sides later.
Read also Editorial
Afghan students demonstrate in Tashkent
A large number of Afghan students studying in Tashkent have staged a violent demonstrations, Soviet official sources have reported.
The students were studying in a police school in Tashkent The reason for the demonstration is not clear but some sources have said that the students were angry about the Soviet Union's troops withdrawal from Afghanistan. These students who are pro regime feel the need for Soviet" troops presence in Afghanistan to protect them from the Mujahideen.