-AFGHAN NEWS VOL,111, NO. 15&16,   15/8/87  PAGE 8
LANDMARK OF MUJAHIDEEN UN1 NT INSIDE AFGHANISTAN
A lofty Conference of Mujahideen--unprecedented in the past 10 years of Jehad--was held in Saghar district of Ghor province from July 12 to July 23. The meeting took place at the invitation of Ismael Khan, the General Amir of Jamiat Islami Mujahideen in South-Western provinces. About 1200 commanders or their representatives from the provinces of Herat, Ghor, Badghis, Faryab.parah, Helmand, Kandahar, Urozgan, Wardak,
Logar, and Kabul took part in the Conference. The participants were not only from Jamiat Islami, but from other six major Mujahideen organizations as well. They included Dr. Fazlullah (Jamiat, Logar), Mullah Naqibullah (Jamiat, Kandahar), Sayyed « Muhammad Akbar (Jamiat, Farvab). Abdul Kareem (Jamiat, Badghis), Sayyed Ayoob (Itehad Islami. Ghor), Hajl Akhtar Muhammad (Mahaz, Murghab of Badghis), Mirza Abdul Rahman (Hezb.Teyora of Ghor), Amanullah (Hezb, Nawzad of Helmand), and Mulla Muhammad Shah (Harakat Inqilab.Farah).
In the last day of the meeting, in which more than 4000 Muja-hideen-~including the commanders and their representatives--partieipated the following resolution was passed:
1-  The right to dertermine the future destiny of Afghanistan belongs to the inheritors of the martyrs and to the faithful Mujahideen who are engaged in a fierce struggle in the battlefields and are ready for martyrdom. No one elase will be allowed to infringe on their right.
2-  Russians must leave Afghanistan unconditionally and stop the bloodshed of our innocent people.
3-  Russians cannot leave Afghanistan securely without paying
war compensations.
4- we Mujahideen will not lay down our arms and stop our armed Jehad until a just Islamic government is established in Afghanistan, the Holy Quran becomes the Supreme 'law, and the banner of Oneness is hoisted on our lofty mountains.
5-  we strongly condemn and reject the decietful "Ceasefire", and "Coalition government" proposed by the Russians and their
puppets.                                                        :
6- Unity of Jehad ranks inside Afghaistan must be accomplished.
7-  The Conference discussed how to intensify coordinated and comprehensive operations against the invading Russian troops all over the country and made appropriate decisions.
8 wireless Communication among Mujahideen should be established all over Afghanistan. Serious efforts must be made to
remove any obstacles that may exist.
9- Mujahideen should cooperate more in exchanging their Jehad experiences, revealing Russian plots and tactics and helping each other in military training.
10 The conference discussed Afghan people’s social and economic problems and made appropriate decisions.