■AFGHANews Vol 5, No 4, February 15,1989, page 7
From the diary of Jehad	by :Abu Amina
A Mujahida from Khanaiz
THE Afghan Jehad is like an ocean. The world can see only a small portion of its surface. Deep within it lie thousands of marvels hidden from casual observers.
One aspect of Jehad that remains hidden is the role of women in Jehad. Although women rarely participate in military activities, their support of the Jehad is so crucial that without it Jehad could never reach the level it has today.
The role of women in Jehad is not limited to passive support, i.e., not objecting to their menfolk joining the re-sistance.Rather they encourage their sons, husbands and brothers to fight the enemy by any means they can. When the Russian agents came to power by a coup d'etat in April 1978,1 remember my mother saying: "I have seven sons. I would not make the milk 1 have fed to them lawful (which means "1 curse them" or "I will be displeased with them") if they are not at the forefront of the struggle against the enemies of God and Islam."
But the role of women is not limited even to this verbal encouragement.
Girls and women of the large cities have organized and participated in huge demonstrations against the Russians and their agents when it was possible to do so. Tens of them were martyred and thousands were wounded, imprisoned, or expelled from schools. Many young girls and aged women still participate in guerrilla activities inside the cities.
Women in die countryside bear the burden of providing all kind of services to Mujahideen under extremely harsh conditions. It is not possible to give a detailed account of all die sacrifices rendered by women. To give an idea, we can mention the story of the heroic lady of Khanaiz, a village in Panjshir valley, which was told by Commander Masood to Prof. Rabbani when they were driving by the village in Panjshir.
She was an aged woman living with her husband, a teenaged son, a teenaged daughter and three other children. The Russian attack disturbed their happy life. Her husband joined the Mujahideen and she was forced to look after the family singlehandedly. The Russian troops reached near Khanaiz. The residents migrated to other areas or
took shelter in the mountains, but the lady decided to stay in the village and bake bread for the Mujahideen. Many times she was seen collecting pieces of wood that had fallen from the trees because of the Russian bombing while the bombardment was still going on. She would bum. the wood in her "ta-noor" (open oven for baking bread) to make bread for Mujahideen.
Her husband was martyred in the fighting. It did not bring any change in her routine service however. Her teenaged daughter was martyred in a bombardment. It was at a time whoa she was baking bread. She brought the body near the tanoor, put a blanket over it and continued making bread. Finally her teenage son, who used to take the bread from home to the battlefield, was martyred. When the Mujahideen came to find out why the bread delivery was delayed, they encountered a calm and composed lady who told them: "My sons, I am sorry that my teenaged son is martyred. Now I do not have anyone to take the bread to you. I'll continue making bread. Would you please send someone to take it to the battlefield?"
She was the last one to leave Khanaiz with her children, after the Mujahideen had withdrawn from their positions near the village.
Soviets troop withdrawal historical victory
for Afghan people
NINE years, one month and 18 days of occupation of Afghanistan came to an end when the last Soviet soldier crossed the border of the two countries on February 15.
The liberation of Afghanistan is one of the most important events of our time. On December 1979 Soviet army moved into Afghanistan to save a client regime which was facing threat from its people. When they left on February 15, 1989, it was clear that they had failed in their mission. The regime of Najibullah is not popular and is facing a strong resistance.
A proud army which had been victorious in World War II and had crushed many uprisings in Eastern Europe, failed to achieve its aim when faced the Mujahideen who were ill-armed and disorganized . This failure will have a tremendous effect on the future behavior of the Soviet Union and its armed forces.
The people of Afghanistan did a marvelous job in die war of liberation. Nobody believed that Afghans could turn the tide back and force the Soviets
By Habib
out of their country. Their strong belief in religion made them unconquerable. More than 9 years of bombing, burning, execution, torture and starvation could not break the will of the Mujahideen.
Afghans paid a dear price for the freedom of their country. About a million people were killed, five millions became refugees, thousands were maimed. Cities, towns, villages, farms and gardens were destroyed. Air was filled with poisonous gasses and the land was covered with mines. Finally these sacrifices paid off and the Soviet leaders realized . that the war in Afghanistan was not winnable.
The international community did his part in support of Afghans. Neighboring countries of Pakistan and Iran hosted the bulk of refugees and paid a dear price for their hospitality when the Soviets and their agents in Kabul carried out sabotage activities against the people of these countries.
The rest of the world helped politically and materially. This act of solidarity with the cause of freedom put addi-
tional pressure on the Soviets to withdraw from Afghanistan.
Hundreds of men and women riskec their lives to take humanitarian assistance to the needy Afghans or cover the war and bring the true story of suffering of a nation. All these people deserve appreciation for what they have done and have a right to be happy that Afghanistan is free from the Soviet occupation.
The liberation of Afghanistan wi] I have a positive implication for the International peace and stability Soviets and other military powers will refrain from taking adventurous steps against weaker nations. The victory oi: Afghans gives a moral boost to the Islamic and third world countries to rely on themselves rather than the support of the outside powers.
The Soviet failure in Afghanistan will pass a signal to all the minority parties who like to lake power in their countries with the help of foreign supporters. If Soviet Union could not im-
Tum to page ( 4)