Vol 7, No 20
October 15,1991
lay siege to Gardez
The Mujahideen attack on Gardez, the provincial capital of Paktia, have resulted in the foil of seme security outposts but the battle for control of the city still continues.. F
The Mujahideen belonging to eight parties, including Jami'at, launched attack on Gardez on September 30. The purpose of the attack is io capture the city, located about 100 kilometers south of Kabul. The Mujahideen launched attacks on Gardez from four directions. The activities of the Mujahideen in each direc tion are coordinated by a local council. Commander Jalaluddin Haqqani is in charge of the whole operation.
Gardez is defended by about 10 thousand troops, including army, police and militiamen. The Kabul regime heavily bombs the Mujahideen from high altitude and fires SCUD missiles against the Mujahideen. Diplomats in Kabul have reported firing of 10 missile from the caipital in one night
About 80 Mujahideen were killed and many wounded in an air raid. Wounded are treated in field hospitals or brought to Khost and Pakistan. It is difficult to estimate the casualties on both sides, but it is said that the Kabul regime has suffered heavy losses.
The Mujahideen are making use of tanks and heavy artillery in the attacks. They captured Sayyed Karam District, about 8 kilometers from Gardez, and the native village of Najib. The Mujahideen have reached up to two ki-lon eters from the city and have blocked Kabul-Gardez road to stop reinforcement from reaching the city. The Mujahideen have reported shooting down of a .number of jets and helicopters.
The Kabul regime has accused Pakistan of involvement in the attack on Garde. Pakistan has denied its involvement in fighting. Some families have crossed the border into Pakistan
To page (2)
Soviets ready to dump 'Comrade Najibullah'
The meeting between the Foreign Minister of USSR Boris Pankin and members of a Mujahideen delegation, headed by Prof. Mujaddidi, has raised hopes for a political solution of the Afghani problem.
In the 30-minute meeting) held at the Soviet UN mission. Pankin suggested that a transitional government should be formed in Kabul headed by a person chosen by the Mujahideen - in which Khaliqyar should serve as the prime minister. A second alternative, he suggested, could be a government headed by ZahirShah.	*
Mr. Pankin admitted that his country's intervention in Afghanistan was a mistake which the Soviet Union was willing to correct. He stated that his government was not supporting the Kabul regime but called the Kabul regime a reality that the Mujahideen could not ignore.
He asked the Mujahideen delegation to provide information about the missing Soviet servicemen in Afghanistan.
The new proposals showed a change in Moscow's stand on Afghanistan. Earlier, Soviets wanted a role for Najibullah in a transitional government
Inclusion of Khaliqyar in the transitional administration is hot acceptable to the majority of the Mujahideen. They hold him responsible for crimes committed during his rule as the governor of Herat and then die Prime, Minister.of the regime. Gailani and Mujaddidi haye said Khaliqyar was neither a communist nor a member of the ruling party, a remark which some Mujahideen consider as tilt of the two leaders tilt towards Pankin's suggestion. To the majority of the Mujahideen, this proposal is power-sharing with the regime. Many Mujahideen think - that Khaliqyar Is a loyal agent of the Soviet Union.
The Mujahideen delegation also held meetings with the UN Secretary-General, the Chairman of the General Assembly and some foreign ministers and ambassadors of friendly countries.
The delegation held a press conference at the UN headquarters. It was sponsored by the OIC. The Mujahideen attended a party given in their honor by the Pakistan Ambassador to the UN. Ambassadors of the five permanent members of the Security Council and Foreign Minister of Palestine State attended the pany. The delegation met with the US Vice President, some members of congress and State Department officials in Washington.
The Prime Minister of the Kabul regime Khaliqyar discussed Afghan issue with the Soviet leaders in Moscow bn the way back from New York. He asked the -Soviet leaders to continue sending of food and fuel to Kabul
In Kabul, Khaliqyar claimed that some Mujahideen groups, Zahir Shah and representatives of the regime will meet in Geneva in the near future to discuss the mechanism of a transitional government
The Mujahideen, Zahir Shah ant the UN expressed ignorance about such a meeting. Khaliqyar might have talket about an idea, under UN consideration, to convene a meeting of a selected group of Afghans to suggest ways of ending the conflict The group will be chosen in consultation with all the parties.
Afghan issue was discussed at meeting between King Fahd of Saudi Arabia- and President Ghulam Ishaq Khan of Pakistan in Jeddah. Pakistan coordinates its efforts for a political settlement of the Afghan issue with Saudi Arabia which is a strong supporter of the Mujahideen.
In an another development Najib has proposed holding of local election under UN auspices to determine the strength of different political groups. The Mujahideen rejected the offer am
»
To page (2)