    We are not inviting Indians to declare.war against the Soviets.
 What we want them to do is to show their unhappiness about the invasion of an independent country and the suffering of millions of its innocent people. You can be a friend of some one , but, at the same time tell him about what he is doing wrong.
    The present Indian government policy towards Afghanistan is the following of the Soviet's path and it is a great shame if the largest democracy in the world is following the biggest dictatorship of the world.
    Mazar Sharif is famous for its organized and effective resistance against the Soviet invaders. This city which is very close to the Soviet border has been the scene of Mujahideen activities against the Soviets and their puppets.
    An eyewitness who has just returned from the area recently described the situation good. Mujahideen parties reached an agreement on escalating the war against the Soviets and their puppets. Since then the level of activities in the form of raids, ambushes and assassination of the enemy agents hs.s increased.
    In order to control the city better, the Soviets built 30 wide streets in the eastern part of Mazar and are building security posts along these streets-, A lot of houses were demolished and Mujahideen lost some of their hideouts.
    Mujahideen of Mazar use the time-bomb effectively. For example, two buses which were carrying Afghan pilots from the city to the airport were blown up last summer and 23 pilots were killed.
    The puppet regime built houses in a relatively secure part of the city to accommodate communist officials. They called this new section Xarta-Solh, After Mujahideen intensified their attack against this area, they started to let ordinary people settle there. This was done t<3 dissuade Mujahideen from attacking the area.
    As a result of the martyrdom of a Mujahideen urban Commander which happened'last summer, the level of fighting inside the city had gone down considerably, but now his Mujahideen have returned back and the level of fighting has risen again. The martyred Commander was Mohammad Seddique belonging to Jarciat Islami of Afghanistan.
    The Soviets are trying to secure Mazar by building a big road all round Mazar city and by putting security posts all along the road. They call this :,green belt1' . Mujahideen are fighting to stop it from being built.
    The witness said that the Soviets have extended a power transmission line from t-he Soviet Union to Mazar. It seams that the Soviets are afraid of 107mm ground-to-ground rockets and have started to build bunkers to protect themselves. Radio Balkh which is controlled by the puppet regime is broadcasting in local languages. Mujahideen do not have any means to fight the enemy propaganda.