AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page @
wmwmmm
Editorial
v*_
A merciful victory
After 14 years of armed struggle, the Mujahideen succeeded to form an Islamic government in Afghanistan. This is a significant victory for the Mujahideen, the Afghan people and all those who supported Jehad
A group of communists took power in Kabul on April 27, 1978, through a bloody coup. The people of Afghanistan rejected their rule aiid began Jehad against them. Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in 1979 to safe the communist system. All sections of the Afghan society put up a heroic struggle against the Soviet invaders. More than one million Afghans lost their lifes and five million-more became refugees, but they refused to accept foreign domination. Afghans earned worldwide admiration for their heroic struggle.
Realizing their helplessness, Soviets decided to leave Afghanistan but continued to give money and weapons to their agents to deprive the Mujahideen from an outright victory.
After the Soviet troops withdrawal. Jehad faced a new situation. The Mujahideen were not united; military operations were conducted under the influence of outsiders and the outside world was loosing interest in the cause because the Soviets were not directly involved.
The desperate situation forced some commanders to talk to each other to find a solution to this problem. These talks led to development of a strategy which emphasized on cooperation among field commanders and gradually approach to military operations. Victory in Khost and in the North in 1991 proved the point that the Mujahideen were able to win battles.
After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Kabul regime was deprived of its economic and military source of aid. This led to rebellion of some army officers and the loss of Mazar-i-Sharif.
Realizing the growing problems, Najib agreed to step down in favor of a neutral government formed under the UN auspices.
Ahmad Shah Masood, the Head of the Supervisory Council of Jami'at, attacked the regime forces in Salang and nroth of Kabul and won a major victory.
This development that cough almost all Mujahideen parties by surprise froced Najib into hiding. Masood could have gone ahead to take power in Kabul but decided to let the political leaders to decide about the form of the future government All parties took active part in political discussions to evolve an acceptable formula, except Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar which was following its own program of conquering Kabul through military operations.
On April 25, the Mujahideen under the command of Masood took control of Kabul. Mujahideen were welcomed by the people of the city.
On April 28 the Mujahideen council entered the city. The officials of the regime handed over power to the council formally. The Mujahideen established their own government without giving any share to the communist party.
Prof. Mujaddidi, the head of the Islamic State of Afghanistan, announced a general amnesty to all the members of the former regime. The Mujahideen wanted to destroy the communist system and were not eager to kill individuals who admit their mistakes.
By the announcement of the Mujahideen government in Kabul, Jehad entered a new phase, the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
In order to achieve their aim, Afghans need unity of action more than any other time in their history. Unity is necessary to expand the rule of Islamic state all over Afghanistan as well as to provide services to the people all over the country. Jami'at has shown its willingness to cooperate with other Mujahideen parties and is ready to do so in the future.
In order to rebuild Afghanistan, we need the support of all peace-loving countries, especially the Muslim world. Russia and other members of CIS have to take part in the reconstruction of Afghanistan because they destroyed the beautiful country of Afghans.
Jami'at leader talks to Afghans through TV
Prof. Rabbani, Jami'at leader, congratulated the people of Afghanistan on the occasion of the victory of the Mujahideen on the communist regime.
In a message read out on radio and TV of Afghanistan oh April 26, said the victory of the Mujahideen is great historic event.
He said the extremist communists wanted to turn the street of Kabul into a blood battle but their attempt was foild by the Mujahideen.
They conspired against the Mujahideen when a 50 member Interim Council was preparing to leave for Kabul to take the charge of the government.
Jami'at leader said in his message that the Afghan nation was united and the Mujahideen allowed no one to divide them on ethnic and linguistic lines.
Prof. Rabbani thanked all Islamic and non-Islamic countries which support the Mujahideen in the just struggle. He appreciated the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Iran and kingdom of Saudi Arabia for their voluable support to the Afghan people.
He expressed hope that the friendly countries, OIC and UN will help Afghans to rebuild their country.
Prof. Rabbani said the Mujahideen government will forgive all those who were misguided and protect life, property and honor of all Afghans.
He asked all the armed froces of the country to be allert and foil the attempts of terrorists to disturb law and order in the country.

The Chief Commander of Jami'at in Baghlan Abdul Hay Haqjo has laid the foundation stone of a new town in Nahrin.
The new town will have 2500 residential houses, office buildings, schools, a park, and a market. The old town could not cope with the growing level of trade and increased population.
The new town is designed by engineers and approved by the council of the district composed of Mujahideen commanders, Ulamas and elders.
During the years of occupation, Nahrin served as the main trading center for the local people and people living in the neighboring districts.