AFGHANews VolS, No 18 & 19, October 1,1989, page®
A. I do not think the war will be very long. Some hard blows will be enough to bring the regime to its knees.
Q. Are you considering psychological warfare?
A. If some cities are captured the regime will be demoralized.
Q. To overthrow the regime. will you attack Kabul, or could the regime be defeated without attacking Kabul?
A. I prefer to attack other cities, before attacking Kabul. Capturing other cities and cutting supply lines will make a campaign against Kabul easier.
Q. It seems that you have two types of organizations, the Army and the Supervisory Council. Do you want these two organizations to spread all over Afghanistan?
A. No, we do not want our organization to spread all over Afghanistan. Our purpose is to show our people that these types of organizations can answer the needs of the Mujahideen. We hope, after some victories on the battlefield, to reach some kind of understanding with the rest of die commanders all over Afghanistan, and through consultation, to serve our people.
Q. Don't you have a plan to ask people to rise against the regime in the cities?
A. People will be mobilized tQ take such action at the last stages of the war.
Q. In whose favor is time?
A. As we had said before, while the Soviets were present in Afghanistan, time was in our favor. Since the withdrawal, time is in favor of the regime, especially with regard to outside support. We hope that by achieving military victories, we can change this situation.
Q. Can the Supervisory Council compete with the Kabul regime?
A. God willing, yes.
Q. Can you compete with AIG?
A* We do not have any competition with AIG. We want to see it stronger, not weaker.
Q. You say there is no competition between the Council and the AIG, but the people in Taloqan know nothing about the AIG. They talk only about the Supervisory Council.
A. The interim government has done nothing for the people. It is up to the AIG how soon it can be recognized by the people in Afghanistan.
Q. For how long will you support the Interim Government?
A. We support the AIG conditionally. The AIG should pave the road for general elections. I hope it can do this.
Q. Has not the weakness of the
AIG strengthened the position of the Kabulregime?
A. The AIG was formed some months ago, but Jehad has continued for many years. Failure of the AIG cannot be considered the failure of the Mujahideen. The weakness of the AIG can delay the victory of the Mujahideen, but will not prevent it
Q. Some Pushtoon leaders say that they mil prevent you from capturing Kabul. What is your message to them?
A. This is enemy propaganda. Within the Council we have dozens of Pushtoon commanders and we have cordial relations with commanders in other parts of Afghanistan. We have good relations with Kandahar, Paktia and Ningaihar.
Q. In Julyt Hezb-i-Islami killed some of your commanders. Is this the beginning of a civil war?
A. We are not in favor of infighting or of spreading it to other areas. We wanted to suppress those responsible for the tragedy, and we did.
Q. Do you consider Hezb’s action in Farkhar an act cffrustration or was it part of a strategy against you?
A. Hezb has a history of these types of actions. Engineer Hikmatyar cannot tolerate his rivals. Hezb does not have any program for the defeat of the Kabul regime. He (Hikmatyar) opposes those people who do have a program, and create problems for them. Hezb was fully aware of the purpose of our meeting in Faikhar and that it would end the present stalemate on the battlefield. This was the reason for setting the ambush.
Q. What is your message to Hikmatyar?
A. We have made it clear to the Hezb leadership on different occasions that without unity, positive work cannot be done in Afghanistan. We want to cooperate with Hezb; because of the present situation there is. a great need for unity and cooperation. I hope Hezb will take practical steps in this direction.
Q, Do you need outside assistance or can you fight with what you have?
A. We have always tried to be self-sufficient We paid attention to this problem from die beginning of die war. But because of the massive Soviet support to the regime, the Mujahideen need to be supported.
Q. The US and other countries' support for the Mujahideen is decreasing. What is your messqge to them?
A. Those who have supported our cause should not be disappointed over the delay of the fall of the Kabul re-
gime. They should not think that the Mujahideen do not have the ability to overthrow the regime. They should realize that die Mujahideen need time to move from a defensive phase in die war to an offensive phase. We hope that the time of transition will be as short as possible.
Editorial
From page (4)
the US in 1986. lt drew the attention of George Shultz, the then US Secretary of State, towards this problem. Mujahideen leaders told him thatthey will face problems in fighting the well-equipped communist regime without foreign military assistance.
In 1989, a member of Jami'at Islami visited Washington to talk to US officials about die post-withdrawal problems. His message — that the war would last longer than generally believed, and that there was a need for continued military aid — did not get through. They had believed (without good reason) that "regime would fall under its own weight".
This attitude towards the tyar is the source of problems confronting the resistance to day. Those who believed in an easy victory started to talk about buying Stinger missiles back from the Mujahideen. They felt no need for planning. If the shortages of supplies are not because of a political decision, then they are definitely a product of oversimplification of die situation.
The Mujahideen believe in their final victory. It may come late, but it will definitely come. Escalation of the war is the only way tq achieve this aim. Either die regime null be defeated militarily, or military action will pave the way^for a just political solution.
The war efforts will be successful if the Mqjahideen re-organize themselves for an offensive war, adopt a sound political and military strategy and have enough weapons and ammunition.
It is the moral responsibility of all those who support the right of nations to determine their future to help us.
Afghans want those countries who have promised support to fulfill their promise, and those who have no intention of doing anything, not to promise anything.
If America cannot help the Afghans for some reason, it should not give a pretext to Gorbachev to continue sending deadly weapons to oppose American moves in Afghanistan.
¥¥¥