AFGHANews Vol7, No 14, July 15,1991, page ©
Hard work saves man from humiliation of serving king
There were two brothers. One then to sit back and relax is better than worked for the king, the other to wear - gorgeous court dress and to be earned his daily bread as a labor- always standing to attention."
er. The servant of the king was rich. Once he turned to his brother and asked: "Why don't you come and work for the king so that you no longer need to work with your hands?"
The other answered: "And why do you not work with your hands so that you no longer suffer the humiliation of being in service? Philosophers have said that to earn your own bread and
It is better to mix quick lime with your bare hands than to stand grovelling with your hands pressed to your chest in front a despot.
Your precious life passes in worrying what you will eat in spring and what you will wear in winter. Let your stomach be satisfied with a little coarse oat bread, so that your back need not always be bent in bowing and scraping.
Power robs you of all peace of mind
A king reached the end of his days and had no successor. In his will, he ordered that whoever first entered the city gates at dawn on the day of his death should be crowned as the new ruler of the country. It so happened, that when the king died, the first person to enter the city was a beggar who had spent all his life gathering crusts of bread and sowing patches on to his threadbare cloak. The nobles and courtiers carried out the king's will and surrendered the keys of the city and its treasury to the beggar.
For some time, the beggar ruled the kingdom. Then, some of the officers rebelled against his authority and the neighboring rulers prepared their armies to join in the melee. Finally even the army and the common people joined the revolt and some of the outlying provinces were liberated from the control of the capital city.
These events left the beggar-king tired and disappointed. At that moment, an old friend who had known him when he was still a mere beggar, returned from his travels and saw him in his exalted royal state. "Praise be to God!" he said. "Look where your lucky star has led you! The thorn of misfortune has turned into the rose of good fortune. You have pulled out the thorn
that was stuck in your foot and your feet now rest on the royal footstool!"
The other replied: "O my brother! You should offer me condolences rather than congratulations. When you last saw me, the most I had to worry about was a loaf of bread; now all the world's worries weigh me down. Once you have power, you get addicted to it and cannot bear to do without it. There is no disease worse than addiction to worldly power whether you have power or whether you don't, it robs you of all peace of mind."
News from battlefields
From page (2)
Mujahideen of Jami'at, Ittihad (Prof. Sayyaf), Hezb (Hikmatyar), Harakat (Mohammadi) and Harakat Islami (Mohsini) have joined a council to coordinate their activities in Maidan.
The aim of the enemy is to outrange the Mujahideen's heavy weapons so that they cannot attack Kabul. It could also be an attempt to open the road link between Kabul and Ghazni.
An enemy attack oh Koti Ashro, 10 kilometers west of Maidan- Shar, was repulsed by the Mujahideen.
Paktia Province
An Afghan air force jet fighter violated Pakistani air space on July 12 and dropped one bomb in Ghulam Khan village, some 17 kilometers from Miranshah.
Meanwhile, three SCUD missiles, fired from Kabul, landed in the Khost garrison, killing two Mujahideen and injuring one.
Iliil
' ' V
ppg
111
reported that put Holy Prophet (peace
Hp»>n Mm)
I|^k thine protec-;
tili^	;
weakness, indolence, cowardice, closedfistedness, burden of debt and overcoming of people.
.....	  ;	i

