flFC-HSH tiEUS UOL.IU, HO. 3,      IZ2/19B0, SfiGE  3
 In another operation by the Mujahideen, nine Russian soldiers were killed on January 4 while they were taking supplies to their post in Tawakh. Moreover, one tack was destroyed by a land mine explosion on the road to Tawakh and all its occupants were lulled
 Mujahideen also shutdown a SU-25 plane in Mockuni valley of Panjshir in the first week of January using a missile
                                                  HERAT PROVINCE
 7/1/198$, According to a report sent by commander Ismael Than, Mujahideen ambushed an enemy convoy along the Herat-Islamqala highway. As a result. 4 trucks, one jeep and one motorcycle were destroyed by heavy weapons. About 15 militias were killed and wounded and 10 others were captured by the Mujahideen
 No casualties from Mujahideen were given in the report.
 9/1/1987; In another operation against an enemy convoy on the Herat-Islamqala highway, 20 APCs. trucks and a few motorcycle were destroyed, An unknown number of militias were killed and 20 soldiers were taken prisoner five AK-47$ were captured in the operation
 According to another report from Herat, one of the most vicious militia commanders, Noorudin Charabuy. was killed by Mujahideen in Herat province on January 23. The well-planned operation was carried out by the Mu jahideen of Shahid Afzali front and Fazal Ahmad Gurg front in Seys Khuia area of Islamqala near the Iranian border. Two of Noorudin s companions w'ere wounded in the operation.
 In another operation on January 20, the Mujahideen from jami'at launched a joint attack on an enemy convoy in Sabool Rozanak area along the Herat-Islamqala highway Three vehicles and one tank were destroyed , 15 enemy troops were killed and a number of them were wounded
 In an earlier operation, Mujahideen destroyed one tank and one APC in Siasang near Adraskaa on December 31,1987, In the operation. 6 Russians were killed and 3 wounded. Mujahideen captured one Grionve atachioegua. 50.000 Afghanis cash, some Russian currency and 10 tape -recorders
 In retaliation the enemy bombarded the areas controlled by the Mujahideen as a result of which a large cumber of sheep and cattle were killed
                                                  BALKH PROVINCE
 Mujahideen from jaroiat attacked the CharboJak sub-district headquarters which are located inside Makar-e-Sharif city, on December 13, 1987 Two military posts were destroyed Mujahideen captured one officer and five soldiers They also seized 14 AT-47s.
 On December 14. 1987. Mujahideen from jam! at in Sfcoigar district launched an attack on Halqajar and Bodana military posts.
 The operation lasted for two days One tank and two other vehicles were destroyed and one ammunition depot was set ablaze, Six puppet soldiers were also captured
 Around mid-December Mujahideen also attacked the Mazar Fertilizer factory, airport and enemy base in Sar Asvab by heavy weapons The size of the damage and casualties are not known, but they are believed to be high.
                     In retaliation , the enemy launched an attack on Mujahideen positions in Shulgar