AFGHANews Vol7, No 12, June 15,1991, page @
Baghlan Province
Dah Mullah Deen Mohammad has defected along with 30 of his aimed men to the Mujahideen of Jami'at- He belonged to the 80th Division of Kayan militia groups stationed in Dooshi District.
Two security post of Kayan militia group in Dara-i-Ashraf was captured by Jami'at Mujahideen on May 20. Two other posts, in Tala area of Bamyan, were over run by the Mujahideen of NIFA, Khalis and Ittihad (Prof. Sayyaf ). One Mujahid was killed and two Mujahideen injured.
Parwan Province
•	The Mujahideen killed six soldiers and captured two on May 3, when they attacked four security posts in Qala-i-Surkh of Jabulseraj, at the mouth of the Salang Valley.
They seized ten Kalashnikov rifles, one mortar, one rocket launcher, one R-105 wireless set and some food and ammunition.
Meanwhile, the headquarters of the regime Second Division,, and other military installations were attacked with heavy weapons, inflicting losses on the enemy.
•	The Mujahideen of Jami'at launched attack against the enemy in Salang, Jabulseraj, Totom Dara (mouth of Ghorband valley) and Charikar on , June- 3, inflicting losses on the enemy and1 blocking the Salang highway. Fighting continued till June 4.
On the first day of the attack, 11 tanks and armored cars and 12 trucks were destroyed in Jangal Bagh area of Totom Dara. In Jabulseraj, two trucks and one tank were destroyed. The Mujahideen attacked Qala-i-Surkh, the headquarters of Second Division and Sangar Battalion with heavy weapons, killing four officers and wounding 12 soldiers.
On June %, seven tanks and trucks were destroyed in Qala-i-Surkh and Sangar Battalion and 11 soldiers and officers were killed.
On June 3, the Mujahideen attacked regime positions near Charikar Clinic, inflicting heavy losses on the enemy.
In Kooklami, Olang and Bagh-i-Maidan, located inside Salang Valley, the Mujahideen destroyed four trucks , three tanks, one anti-aircraft gun and one BM-13 rocket launcher. An unknown number of the enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded.
On June 4, an ammunition dump of the enemy in Qala-i-Surkh was set on fire. It burned fra- two hours.
During these four days, the Salang road remained closed. The Kabul regime bombed the residential areas in Jabulseraj, Gulbahar, Salang and surrounding areas, destroying a large number of houses and killing many civilian population. The enemy is also making use of artillery and rockets against the Mujahideen extensively. The casualties of the Mujahideen are not available. The attack on Salang coincided with regime attack on Khwaja Ghar.
Balkh Province
•	The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked the regime militia forces in Arghoun, Nahr-i-Shahi District, on May 25. In the fighting which continued for four days, 40 militiamen, including Chamoot, a famous militia commander, were killed and nine were injured. The Mujahideen seized the following weapons:
Armored cars: 4 Tanfcl
PK machineguns: 2 Kalashnikov rifles: 50 RPG rocket launchers:4 some ammunition The Mujahideen lost 20 men in the operation.
#	The Kabul regime jet fighters bombed Sholgar bazaar killing eight people and wounding 50. Tens of shops and houses were destroyed and scores and animals were killed. The bazaar is the trade center for the Sholgar District and adjoining areas. The attack took place at noon.
Herat Province
Fighting in Zindajan still continues. From May 31st till June 6, the Mujahideen killed more than 100 regime troops and destroyed nine tanks and four tracks.
The Mujahideen shot down a regime jet on June 8 in Zindajan. The pilot who bailed out was rescued by the enemy helicopters.
Helmand Province
The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked regime forces in Grishk on May 24, destroying one tank and two trucks and killing 20 communists soldiers and officers.
The Mujahideen attacked an enemy convoy in Delaram area on April 29 destroying 19 tanks, armored cars and trucks. The casualties of the enemy were not available. Six Mujahideen were killed in the operation.
The Kabul regime retaliated by heavy aerial bombing of liberated areas which resulted in killing or wounding of a large number of civilian population.
Takhar Province
A huge force of the Kabul regime which was comprised of units from Division No. 18, Division No. 20 and Division 55 and militias of Sayyec Kayan and Rashid Dostum launched an attack to recapture Khwaja Ghar on May 28. The ground attack was combined with heavy aerial bombing and firing of SCUD missile.
The council of commanders in Khwaja Ghar which is comprised of the Mujahideen of six parties decided to withdraw from the city in order to safe the life of ordinary people. But the Mujahideen will keep the surrounding village and strategic points arounc Khwaja Ghar and continue to resist the enemy.
The enemy reached Khwaja Ghar on June 2. So far six armored cars, three trucks and one ambulance of the enemy have been destroyed, 50 soldiers have been killed and about 5( were wounded.
The Mujahideen lost three men in these fighting. Sayyed Yahya, the commander of 5th Battalion of the Islamic army and Abdul Hakim the commant -er of one of the units of that army were martyred on June 2. The third person
m- Page (4)