I------------- AFGHANS^	VoU,	Holi, June 1,1986. Pages j
r '■■■'■' 1 '■ ■■ ■     i ■ ,	i	■	i	i	.....	j
I	' ------- ------
! News
from the battlefields
i
|	Pan j shir valley
i
i
! THE Mujahideen captured
•	a major enemy garrison in
j Tan ban a of Panjshir valley on [ May 15, This forced the j enemy to abandon the
•	garrisons of Baharak and
I Bazarak and retreat to Rukha. i I The garrison of Tanbana [ was manned by the 64 tb ! regiment of the puppet army I and included a KHAD center j and seven mountain-top posts, j In the operation which 1 began at 4:20 in the morning | and lasted for only one hour,
1 60 enemy troops were killed | including four Soviet advisors I and the commander and I political commisar of the 1 garrison. Forty two were i captured and some others \ managed to escape, j Mujahideen also seized two ] tanks, two APCs, four 76mm j howitzer guns, one 120mm j mortar, 11 PK and Creaev I machine guns. 500 i Kalashinkovs and a large | Quantity of ammunition and | foodstuff,
j In the operation, one | Muiahid was killed and two j others were wounded
On the next day, May 164 | the enemy launched a counter | attack. Its artillery heavily j bombarded the Mujahideens | positions. After losing a tank j and some soldiers the enemy I was forced to retreat Two j Mujahideen were killed and S 12 others wounded, j Ir should be noted that i while launching their attack
on Tanbana garrison, the Mujahideen also undertook operations In Shabah and Parandeh in order to prevent the enemy from sending reinforcements to Tan ban a. In Shat)ah five security posts were attacked and captured.
Mu jahideen also seized one mortar, two PK machine guns, 20 Kalashlnkovs, four wireless sets fR-195 type! and some ammunitions.
In the operation against Parandeh post, six soldiers were captured and some other killed, Ten Xalashinkovs and some ammunitions also feu ! into the hands of the ! Mujahideen.
The Mujahideen did not suffer any casualties in Sbabah and Parandeh operations.
Tan ban a is located 45 kilometers inside the Panjshir valley and is only five kilometers from the enemy base in Baharak.
As the result of the successful operation aganist Tanbana garrison the enemy morale cracked and they started to pull out of the two garrisons of Baharafc and Bazarak, The enemy retreat was in dis array and they left large quanties of equipment including light and heavy weapons. No details are available yet.
The upper part of the valley up to Rukha. 25 ‘
: Kilometers inside the valley, Is controlled by the Mujahideen.
The operation against
Tanbana was carried out under j the command of Mohmood Khan J the chief administrator of the S valley.	|
The enemy has about 10,000 j troops in the Panjshir valley, j Half of the troops consist of j the puppet soldiers and the j other half of Russians.	j
Russian soldiers are based j in the main garrisons in Rukhai and Anaba, The puppet	[
soldiers occupy the garrisons j
in the upper part of the valley, t
i
Baghlan	j
j
MORE than 600	j
militiamen defected to the i Mujahideen of Jami at after the! Soviet forces left Andarab j valley three weeks ago.	i
The militiamen brought with { them 400 Kalasbintov rifles, j 210 other types Of light j weapons, five mortars, three Bschk and eight heavy	!
machine guns,	)
Leqa. a commander of j militia forces in Andarab, was i among those who defected. j After the Soviet troops left j Andarab the regime s units i retreated from Deh Sal ah and j Bano and established	j
themselves tn Youth village in j
the lower part of Andarab. j
\
\
Badakhshan	!
i
i
I
THE Mujahideen from j Jami1 at ki!led two enemy j soldiers and toot prisoner 15 j others in an attack on a DRA j post in lower Yaftal on April j i&.	j
The Mujahideen who were j led by Jan Ali Khan, the ! commander of lower Yalta!, also seized three machine guns. Some of the DRA soldiers j managed so escape and the post ! fell into the hands of the J Mujahideen.	\
\
Zabul	1
i i
i
THE Mujahideen from j Jami at tn cooperation with the? Mujahideen from other parties captured DRA posts in	j
