/
/
----------------  AFGHANews	Vol8,	No	20,	October	15,1992, page @
purge of former regime officials.
So some important posts in various ministries are still in their hands. This policy is based on pragmatism, not the secret deals . that ' Kakar’s fertile imagination suggests.
Sitting along way away in the comfort of exile is one thing; inheriting a ruined country and assuming (he responsibility of government is quite another. One suspects wise men like Prof. Kakar might refuse to accept a.post in the Interim Government, if it were offered, because of concerns about security or over the future of his children.
If the two commanders, Abdul Haq and Haqqani, whom the Kakar describes as "neutralizers of the third conspiracy of Babrak”, had cooperated honestly with the Islamic government, some of the problems facing the country would have been solved much sooner. Abdul Haq refused to accept the key post of Kabul police chief. This would have given him the opportunity to address the single greatest priority of the revolution's first weeks: security in the na-tiuonal capital. Instead, he left the country.
Haqqani stayed out of the country for several critical months. The military positions on Kabul's south side which had been allotted him by the Defense Ministry fell into Hezb's hands, who used them as bases I to launch terrorist attacks on Kabul during August.
- The Mujahideen's political leaders and field commanders have no choice but to admit that when a Mujahideen military victory seemed impossible, Commander Masood seized the initiative and overthrew, the -regime. Some Mujahideen leaders had accepted the UN plan for the formation of a neutral government; even the traditional foreign supporters of the Mujahideen were promoting the UN peace plan. Even Hikmatyar, who talked the most about continuation of armed struggle, came to Afghanistan (albeit after most of the provinces had already fallen to the Mujahideen),
Those who accuse Masood of sabotaging the UN peace plan should have read the statements of Jami'at more carefully. A review of Jami'at publications will Teveal that Jami'at was opposed to a coalition government with communists, and considered formation of a neutral government impractical. The UN representative failed to appreciate the situation, and failed to meet with Commander Masood to discuss his proposed plan. He met with Masood after the regime had already fallen and his plan had lost its validity.
Some technocrats living in exile are critical of the Mujahideen's move to topple Najib’s government because it deprived •them of a chance to come to power in the garb of UN-sponsored neutrals.
Hezb's attacks on. Kabul; law-and-order problems in the capital; and bloody, destructive clashes between the Ittihad and Wahdat parties have raised understandable questions about the wisdom of a military
takeover of Kabul.
.«
But those favoring the UN plan have never explained how any of this could have been prevented by formation of a government of 15 "neutral" men. Many of those
proposed were aging exiles, technocrats with no popular backing, "whose hands” -in the words of one respected foreign correspondent - "tremble when they hold out their tea-cups.”
If strong personalities like Masood and other Mujahideen commanders could not prevent the violence, it is foolish to assume they would have done better.
Kakar's claim that the provincial capitals fell to the Mujahideen in reaction to Masood's move is not correct. Most of the provinces fell with the participation of Jami!at forces and the rest fell on the last days as a natural consequences of the process. It was an anti-regime action which began with the fall of Charikar and ended with the fall of Jalalabad.
This view that Jami’at has been given more power than its strength is also unfair judgment The post of president Was given to Prof. Rabbani in the second phase of the transitionaTperiod. It is quite possible that in the third phase, a leader more acceptable to Kakar will be fairly elected or appointed. Giving the Ministry of Defense to Masood was appropriate to his role and abilities. It was a timely and correct decision, given the situation on the ground. He is an experienced man with considerable number of Mujahideen backing him. His forces are the most disciplined among the Mujahideen. And he is able to maintain the balance between the rival forces within me government.
Only those who judge everything on the light of linguistic and ethnic factors find his appointment unacceptable. They think since Masood is a Tajik, and the largest single ethnic group in Afghanistan is the Pushtuns, that the post should have been given to somebody else.
This type of argument is misleading because the majority-of Afghans are not concerned about such matters. They want peace, and if that is provided to them by any person from among tjie Mujahideen, they will welcome it. The ethnic problem is a concern of misguided intellectuals and other bigots, who are divided along these lines among themselves and want the populace to follow suit.
There is no formal mechanism to show that Masood and Jami’at represent Tajiks, and some other parties, Pushtuns. The constitution of the Islamic State of Afghanistan will not recognize, the division of the people on ethnic and linguistic lines. Chauvinists of all ethnic groups will be disappointed.
The Afghan people are aware of the role of Jami’at during the years of Jehad. Afghans living in exile could get this information from documentary films, books and papers written about Jehad. Jami'at is responsible for the security of Kabul and has successfully thwarted massive offensives by Hezb twice since the fall of the regime. The Hidden War, a book written by a Russian journalist, is a witness to the performance of Jami’at during the years of occupation.
Kakar seems unhappy about the leadership of religious scholars in die Islamic government. For an Islamic society, people aware of Islam can provide better leadership
than secular individuals. This does not mean that these leaders do not need the experts for running a modem state. They will try to avoid losing their technocrats. This is die reason for not taking hasty steps to introduce changes in upper ranks of the ministries. Those who wanted quick change are annoyed by the caution shown by the government. This has provided ammunition for Gulbuddin to label the government a "coalition setup.”
Circumstances produce the leadership of any society. Jehad was a religious war. The ulama played an important role in Jehad, and those practicing Islam formed the backbone of the Mujahideen organizations. The present leadership emerged from among the people. Because of their background, they dress, speak and eat differently from the conventional leaders of Afghanistan.
The current leaders ' of Afghanistan face a challenge. If they can adjust themselves to peace, they will survive. Otherwise, they will be swept away and their place will be taken by suitable leaders.
Kakar • criticizes the Peshawar Accords, but a decision should be judged taking into account the circumstances under which it was made. The agreement reached between the leaders in Peshawar in a short period was an achievement because they had rarely agreed on anything in the past 14 years. Criticism by die leaders of minor parties and individuals within the main parties should not be taken seriously . ‘**
Kakar has expressed worry that since the decision to form the government was made in Peshawar, Pakistan might have influenced the process. This is false. In making this decision, pressure from inside Afghanistan was the determining factor.
The leaders 'were asked by Commander Masood to agree on formation of a government within specific number of days. With the transfer of Mujahideen headquarters from Peshawar to Kabul, the leaders won freedom of action. Despite thd shortcomings of the Peshawar Accords, it was an indispensable step towards the eventual formation of an elected government.
The worry that the government might ask for military assistance from the neighboring countries is baseless, because Afghanistan already has. more weapons than it needs, and some of its weapons-systems are more advanced than those o( the neighboring countries. The report that Pakistani officers are busy reorganizing the Afghan army is false. Some Pakistani papers quoted Hamid Gul, the former ISI chief, as saying this! but no request for such help has been made by the Afghan government.
The writer has tried to prove that the • interim government is not representative.. Although it is not elected and some parties are not participating in it, it is as close to a truly representative government as could be expected under the current circumstances. The problem is loud claims of popularity by party spokesmen. Each party claims to represent the„ majority of Afghans. Popular elections will solve this problem.