:— AFGHANews Vol 8, Nos 21 & 22, November 15, 1992, page ©
Mass grave found in Herat
The discovery of a mass grave at Herat in Afghanistan on September 22 has weakened the belief of the relatives of thousands of missing Afghans who were thought to be alive and incarcerated in various states of the former Soviet Union.
It wais reported that at least 2,000 Afghans have been dumped under several tonnes of mud by the former communist government in Kabul near the premises of the office used by the now-defunct People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan.
The recovered bodies were blindfolded and had their hands tied behind their back. The bodies reportedly bore bullet marks as well.
It is still not clear whether the executions were carried out in the days of Hr'"zullah Amin or r.-br-k Karmal-the
two former Afghan Prcsidents-following the April coup of 1978. A UN team has also visited the site and has confirmed the discovery of the first mass grave.
A huge gathering of the people was held at the sight of mass grave. Men, women and children had attended the meeting. Ismail Khan, the commander and governor of Herat, told the mourners that they should not wail for the return of their relatives anymore.
He used the occasion to attack the communist regime and its local supporters who committed the crime. The gathering was. the largest after the formation of the Islamic government in April.
" To protest to the killing, people in Herat went to the rooftop of their house and chanted Allha-o-Akber (God is Great) one hour each night for one week. A mourning day was observed in Herat to respect those killed defending Islam and Afghanistan.

ATC clears minefields
Around 2,000 mines, planted by Soviet and communist regime soldiers in Takhar Province, have been defused by Afghan Technical Consultants (ATC) in the past nine months.
ATC is a mine clearance program funded by the United Nations. This program has been involved in mine clearing activities in Afghanistan for the last two years. It has launched mine-clearing projects in Kunar, Jalalabad, Logar, Kabul, Badakhshan, Takhar and Ghazni provinces.
Mohammad Hash am Sa'ad, the head of Takhar project, said that during nine months of operations, Rustaq, Farkhar, Khwaja Ghar, Kalafgan and major parts of the city of Taliqan have been cleared of mines.
Giving the details of the operations, he said that his team defused 20 anti-tank mines on Keshm-Taliqan road, 20 anti-personnel mines in Farkhar, 170 mines in Khaskapa of Taliqan, 30 mines in Kalafgan.
He said his men were busy clearing a Soviet base in Bagh-i-Zakhira of Taliqan and that so far 1500 mines have been defused.
Hasham said a total of 66 deminers work on the Takhar project These
deminers are trained by UN mine experts in a camp hear the city of Peshawar.
The projects operating inside the country arc run by Afghan personnel. No foreigners are involved in defusing mines.
The project is facing a lack of funds. But if the works continues at the same speed, Takhar will be cleared of mines by the end of the year.
Mohammad Hasham, 31, is a resident of Panjshir Valley. He completed his primary and secondary studies in Panjshir. He sustained injuries twice in fighting against the Soviets in Panjshir.
1
asruddin's
Man bites dog -that's news
Nasruddin had been out of town on one of his long hikes. As he entered the village he saw the people hurrying, one and all, towards the market-place. "Don’t you know? A man has been on the pilgrimage to Mecca. This year there were a hundred thousand people there - and he is giving a lecture about it."
"From the excitement," said Nasruddin, 'I had almost concluded that the pilgrimage had come to him-not the other way about."
Just as well I came along
Nasruddin was walking past a well, when he had the impulse to look into it. It was night, and as he peered into the deep water, he saw the Moon's reflection there.
"I must save the Moon! Nasruddin thought. "Otherwise she will never wane, and the fasting month of Ramadan will never come to an end."
He found a rope, threw it in and called down: "Hold tight; keep bright; succor is at hand!"
• the rope caught in a rock inside the welt, and Nasruddin heaved as hard as he could. Straining back, he suddenly felt the rope give as it came loose, and he was thrown on his back. As he lay there, panting, he saw the Moon riding in the sky above.
"Glad to be of service," said Nasruddin. "Just as well I came along, wasn’t it?"