flFCHRM MENS VOL .III, NO. 16, 15^9/19e?,PRCE h
NEWS FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS
                                     KANDAHAR PROVINCE
 Sept. 4.1987: Russians have began implementing a new plan in . order to protect their garrisons near the Kandahar city from Mujahideen attacks. They have started construction of a new road from Kokaran Silo to Teerpdimal mountain. They also want to build a bridge on thfe Arghandab river. Thus, they want to connect Charbagh road to Terkia sand garrison; and. by establishing military posts along the road, stop Mujahideen’s movement in the area.
 Mujahideen of Mula Naqib group attacked the enemy troops guarding the workers who build the road on Sept. 2,3. and A. Fourteen tanks and other vehicles were destroyed, and about 40 soldiers were captured along with their weapons.
 Sept. 5.1987: Mujahideen under the command of Mula Naqib launched an attack on Russians* new garrison and its family compound (in which the families of the Russian and Afghan officers live) in Shawalikot district of the Kandahar province. The new compound is located about three kilometers from the Kandahar city along the Kandahar-Kabul highway. The fighting lasted from l;00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. According to inside Information, about 50 Russians and 60 pro-Russian Afghans were killled in the attack and 10 military vehicles were destroyed.
 To revenge the attack, the Russians bombarded Mujahideen positions near Shawalikot district heavily for three days, but there were no life casualties.
                                       FARYAB PROVINCE
 August 21.1987: Russian and puppet troops launched a strong attack on the villages at the outskirts of the Malmana city on July 23. The air and ground bombardment was extremely severe. Most probably the Russians used chemical weapons as well because many of the villagers developed skin deseases later on. In the attack about 3000 houses in Dihyan, Shah Baqi, Alat Khana, Charmgar, Balooch. Gul Khana, Qatoor, and Shah Foul ad villages were distroyed and about 90 percent of the villagers had to migrate. Seventeen mosques and hundreds of farms were also destroyed and 19 wheat harvests were burned down.
 Mujahideen under the command of Muhammad Sadiq, Sayed Alau-ddin and Yar Muhammad fought back against the invading troops.