AFGHANews Vol 6, No 5, March 1, 1990, page ©
Jami'at Islami believes in final Mujahideen victory
Otillie English
Mohammed Es'Haq, a political officer of Jamiat-i-Islami Afghanistan visited Washington, DC on the occasion of the first anniversary of the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan. The Committee for a Free Afghanistan, the American organization hosting Es'Haq's visit, held a press conference on February 14, at 2105 Rayburn House Office Building. At the press conference, Es’Haq spoke at great length regarding the Afghan’s continued struggle for self-determination, and the problems the Resistance has had during the past year.
"What we want the United States to understand", said Es’Haq, "is that our struggle is not merely to oust one puppet, but the overthrow of the entire communist system. Therefore, merely removing Najib will not alleviate the situation."
The press conference was attended by NBC News, CNN, CBN, Associated Press, Reuters, the Washington Times, the Wall Street Journal, Federal News Service, the Washington Inquirer, Voice of America, Selcai-Nippo of Japan and the Turkiye Daily. Congressmen Charles Wilson and Don Ritter, avid supporters of the Afghan Mujahideen, co-sponsored the event In addition to the Press Conference, Es'Haq met individually with reporters covering Afghanistan from the Chicago Sun Times, The Washington Post, Washington Times, Associated Press, the Wall Street Journal and Scripps-Howard Newspapers during his visit He was interviewed on National Public Radio’s "All Things Considered", International News Service's "Focus on Issues", and appeared on Fairfax Public Television's "Ariana Afghanistan".
At a luncheon for Congressional Aides, he delivered the message that peace in the region can only be attained by continuing support for the Afghan Resistance. "The Mujahideen need time to improve their performance on the battlefield. This is necessary before any political initiations are launched. Once we achieve some victories, prospects for a political solution will be brighter."
Recent negotiations between US Secretary of State Baker and Edward Schevardnadze have resulted in a flawed agreement tentatively allowing Najib to remain in Kabul, while plans are made for a transfer of power to an
interim government. The plan also calls for a cessation of aid on both sides in the interim period of time. The Committee for a Free Afghanistan has been critical of the "negative symmetry" concept since it does not account for the estimated 4.5 billion in military aid given to Kabul since the Soviet withdrawal.
Many previous supporters of the Afghan Mujahideen in die US House of Representatives have waffled in favor of the "negative symmetry" concept. This is partially because they naively feel that Kabul must eventually capitulate in favor of the Mujahideen, since Soviet arms are its only means of survival.
As Mohammed Es’Haq continuously reiterated to reporters during his interviews, "Negative symmetry will hurt the Resistance effort because the Soviet Union has in die past year given 4.5 billion to the regime of the PDPA, while the arms pipeline to the Mujahideen was totally shutdown. It gave the communists the upper hand in the battle field, the battle for Jalalabad was a good example of that, and has made the Soviet Union less flexible towards a political solution acceptable to the people of Afghanistan. This can only prolong the war.”
When the Soviets withdrew one year ago, reporters from every major news agency in the United States raced to Kabul to cover the historic Occasion. This was natural since comfortable lodgings were made available, fax machines and telephones were on hand to meet deadlines, and transportation to outlying areas was easily accessible. Unfortunately, few journalists ventured inside Afghanistan" to speak with Afghan commanders about conditions. Thus the propaganda campaign initiated by the regime in Kabul, one which has portrayed the Afghan resistance as aggressors that care little about civilian deaths, has been very easy to implement.
Although support among certain sectors to continue arming the Mujahideen has waffled, Es'Haq was very optimistic about the future. "Even if the aid is shut off, we will continue our struggle. We know we will win and the regime of the PDPA will be eventually overthrown, because we have the support of the people. This is the most important thing. But it will be sad if aid is suspended in a flawed dea
Turn to pagpe ( 6)
f February 23,1990	^
lriAw
Area/Tem. in C°	H	L
Kabul	10	-3
North Salang	6	—11
Jabulseraj
13 3
Chekhcharan	3	-13
Shebirghan	3	1
Mazar-i-Sharif
Kunduz
Lashkargah
Farah
Zaranj
Kandahar
Jalalabad
Faizabad
15 3
7	4
17 TO 15 7 13 3 17 6 19 7 10 3
		
		
111		flf
		
		
2{eCp us puBtish
AjgtikHe'ios!
PCeast send your donations to the fottozving account number:
Account 735-37 3iaBib ‘BanfiLtd. ‘Tehkcd'Bata, Peshawar Pakistan