AFGHANews Vol7, No 23, December 1,1991, page ©
Moscow visit successful: Prof. Rabbani
Prof. Rabbani gave an exclusive interview to AFGHANews about the visit of the Mujahideen delegation to Moscow from November 11 to 15 which he led, and which resulted in a signed agreement. Three Mujahideen &rties did not take part in the talks. •••
AFGHANews: Has the Moscow agreement signed between the Mujahideen and Soviet government brightened the prospects for the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan?
Prof. Rabbani: The visit to Moscow has solved some of the external problems blocking the establishment of an Islamic government. Complications faced by the UN concerning the role of Najib, and the attitude of Moscow towards a free Islamic government were eliminated. The basic problem is how the Mujahideen will make use of the present opportunity to reach their aim via the shortest possible way.
AFGHANews: Can the outcome of Moscow persuade the three Mujahideen parties which did not take part in the negotiations to join the process?
Prof. Rabbani: The agreement signed in Moscow has had a positive effect on the policy of some of these parties. Some ranking members of these parties appreciate the achievements of the Mujahideen delegation. While it is difficult to predict the final position of these parties, there is a strong possibility that their policies will change.
AFGHANews:	What political
steps can be expected from the Mujahideen after the Moscow agreement?
Prof. Rabbani: The first task is to appoint a team to represent the Mujahideen in the joint Soviet-Mujahideen commission to supervise implementation of the agreement. The second job facing the Mujahideen is the formation of a government to which power may be transferred.
AFGHANews: What will be the effect of the Moscow agreement on the Kabul regime?
Prof. Rabbani: The agreement has had immediate effect on the morale of the regime. Since the signing of the accord, many regime officers have contacted the Mujahideen. The people in Kabul feel that not only Najib but
the regime also has to go. Najib has become worried. Opposition to the deal by some Mujahideen parties has provided the regime with some hope. The full implementation of the agreement will cause the regime to panic. The withdrawal of Soviet advisors and stoppage of oil supplies will weaken the war machine of the Kabul dictator.
AFGHANews: In what way will the Moscow agreement affect the USSR's relations with a free Afghanistan?
Prof. Rabbani:	The	agreement
that the Islamic Interim government will have the power to endorse or reject the agreements signed between Moscow and the Kabul regime since 1978 is a significant achievement The Soviets will not be able to pressure future Afghan governments by using these agreements. Condemnation of the invasion by the Soviet leaders is not only a moral and psychological victory for the Afghan people, but has provided a legal basis for the Mujahideen to demand war reparations.
AFGHANews: How will the attitude of leaders of the Central Asian Republics be towards the Kabul regime after the Moscow talks?
Prof. Rabbani: We asked the
Soviets to include the representatives of the Asian republics in the talks so that no one would be in a position to break the agreement under one pretext or another. Representatives of these republics were present in the talks. The Mujahideen visit to Moscow has created sympathy for the Mujahideen in the Central Asian Republics. Any attempt
to support the Kabul regime will face resistance by the people, because they will not tolerate a return to the old policies.
The leaders of the republics want to enjoy the support of the Islamic organizations. Attempts to help the Kabul regime will undermine support for the leaders of these republics.
AFGHANews: What were your feelings when you arrived in Moscow?
Prof. Rabbani:	The visit to
Moscow was a painful psychological experience for me. I had gone to a country which was responsible for killing of 1.5 million Afghans. I told the Soviet leaders about my feelings. I told them that I accepted their invitation to visit Moscow to test their claims that they were trying to find a peaceful solution to the Afghan problem.
AFGHANews: Did you have any meetings with Soviet Muslims?
Prof. Rabbani: I had a meeting with the Muslims of Tatar. They told me about the crimes committed against them by the communists. I assured them of the support of Muslims all over the world. I led Friday prayers in the Moscow mosque and gave a sermon. The Muslims of the Soviet Union received us with Islamic affection.
AFGHANews:	When the
Mujahideen demand that the Soviets remove the Kabul regime because it was brought to power by the Red Army, do they suggest military intervention?
x Prof. Rabbani: The Mujahideen are against Soviet military intervention under any name or in any shape. We ask the Soviets to stop assisting the illegal regime of Najib. We consider Soviet support for the Kabul regime interference in our internal affairs. The Kabul regime will fall if Moscow stops supporting it.
Help us publish AFGHANews!
Please send your donations to the following account number:
JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan ____________________