   AFGHAN NEWS____SPECIAL EDITION 25/11/1986 PAGE 2
                                               MILITARY SITUATION
                                                 Pressure on civilians
 Tactics used by Soviet occupation troops in the North have been more or less the same as used in other strategically important parts in Afghanistan:
    (1) Heavy bombardemt by their advanced and sophisticated fighting aircrafts.
    (2) Rubblising and flattening to depopulate the villages by heavy and long range artillery.
    (3) Launching massive ground offensives to capture Mujahideen bases and hideouts to establish their own posts
    (4) Ambushing supply routes
    (5) Using different types of mines around their posts to stop both infiltration and defiltration
    (6) Infiltrating the rank and file of Mujahideen through their intelligence networks.
 Although the Russians have not introduced any new tactics since a year ago. they have done two main things: stepped up the war and intensified previous tactics to bring pressure more on innocent unarmed civilians, in an expanded operational zone. Additional subtactics, such as deliberate burning of harvests, destroying irrigation systems, contaminating drinking water, looting peoples property , forcefully conscripting the youth to use them in the battle fields against the Mujahideen and sending hundreds of children to have them brainwashed in Soviet Russia, added to the pressure on civilians. As Commander Massoud said ' pressure on civilians is more now ", "Russians have not changed their tactics in the North but they have changed their direction from Mujahideen to unarmed civilian population".
 With this change of direction the Soviets have made the war more brutal, wild and inhuman A local Mujahid commander told me that "the target of the Rusians is not just Mujahideen hideouts but also civilians muddy huts” . This is why this year in the North every body was talking about civilians plight
 The question is why do Russians bring so much pressure on civilians?
 "Out of frustration". Although this answer looks strange in fact it is true. Despite enormous difficulties, people s cooperation with Mujahideen has been increasing in every sphere of life. Hence the Russians have been trying to depopulate strategic areas of the civilian population which co-operates with the Mujahideen by driving them out of the country or sending them into the main cities under their limited control. Killing and maiming are side effects of this tactic.
 At present the Soviets policy can be summarized into two main parts which are indeed complement each other .
    (a) - hitting stragtegically important and centrally organized bases of Mujahideen.
    (b) - bringing military, economic and psychological pressures on civilians in the strategic areas of the north.
 So escalation of the war can be a logical outcome of this policy
 "Organizataional work is the only effective challenge to this sinister policy in such and unequal and prolonged war". So Mujhideen in the north were busy, though slower in the flat areas, in organizing themselves militarily and mobilizing themselves politically. No doubt there will be a long and hard way to go but with a higher morale and hope, inshallah, they will reach it