AFGHAN NEvIS
VOL. II, Mo. 7
1-4-1986
F-2
    Our Pakistani brothers should know we have not come to seek a better material life. No matter how beautiful a host country is and how kind its people are, it never takes the place of one's home,
    ^hat the Soviets are doing and preaching about refugees is aliped at the creation of misunderstandings between the Afghan Piihajexin (refugees and Faicistani Ansars (hosts). We have a common enemy, let us open our eyes and not be misled by their known and secret agents. The Soviets can not be the friend of any, body. The Afghanistan situation is a living example. What happend to Zahir, uawod, Taraki and Amin is a good lesson even for those who have a soft heart towards Soviet policies.
    When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan , the people of Afghanistan were expecting the world to put pressure on the Soviets to end their occupation. Resolutions were passed for the withdrawal of foriegn troops (they were diplomatic eno.ugh not mention the Soviets by name)*
    The Soviets 'have ignored all these resolutions and the war has continued for more than six years. The proximity talks are drawn out* The Soviets are using a delaying tactic to win the war v/hile the world focusses on the Geneva talks .Instead of helping our cause and decreasing the difficulties of millions of Afghans, theAe talks are now serving the purpose of the invaders and their puppets. The puppets can publicise on this and try to impose themselves on the people of Afgh-anistan with Soviet fire power and U.N diplomacy* From all the past meetings it seems that Cordovez's shuttle diplomacy is not unbiased*
He seems more convinged by the logic of a super power which has invaded an independent country than the argument of millions of suffering /Afghans who are trying to regain their freedom. The terrible suffering of the people of Afghanistan by the hand of the Soviets and and their puppets is confirmed by the U.N Special Commission for Human slights.
    On the ground the U.N is funding some health and educational pro-grames inside Kabul through EHO and UNESCO. UNESCO supports ah illit-racy program (Communist indoctrination classes) which i^ hurting us more. They make use of Soviet and Indian officers in these projects which is a double gain for the Soviets and their regional surrogate , India.
    No wise person can justify such aid. If>the U.N can not help us to
get bade our legitimate rights frora the invaders, she should not rub a
                 of
salt on the wound our people by giving support to the Soviet puppets in Afghanistan.