AFGHAN NEUS OOL.III, HO. 10,       15/5/1907,PAGE 3
                                           1
              FRENCH FOREIGN MINISTER MET MUJAHIDEEN DELEGATION
The Alliance delegation which was led by Younus Khalis, the current spokesman of the of the Islamic Alliance of the Mujahideen of Afghanistan met France foreign Minister, Mr. jean Bernard Raimond on May 7th. The meeting lasted for one hour. The delegation discussed the military and political situation in Afghanistan with the Foreign Minister. The meeting between the two sides took place before the French Prime Minister's trip to Moscow which is scheduled for mid May Afghan Resistance expects that the Prime Minister will raise the question of Afghanistan with the Soviet leaders and encourage them to end their intervention in Afghanistan.
France supports the struggle of the people of Afghanistan to liberate their country and to decide their future. The French Government has given humanitarian assistance Uf the Refugees in Pakistan and the displaced people inside the country. Public support in France for the cause of Afghanistan is relatively strong and there are several support and relief organizations which work to support the Afghan cause and alleviate the suffering of the people of that country.
                        NEWS
                                      FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS BAGHLAN PROVINCE
 17/4/1987. The enemy posts in Naqsha, 3 Kilometers from Baghlan city were attacked by the Mujahideen. As a result of the attack 40 enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded. Mujahideen also destroyed three bulldozers and 8 tanks and captured two wireless sets and some ammunition Two Mujahideen were martyred in the operation.
 The mentioned posts were established after a big offensive was launched by the enemy one month ago The enemy failed to drive Mujahideen out of the area but was able to inflict material losses on the local people Some of the civilians have become refugees in other parts of Baghlan province.
 U worth mentioning that in this area Mujahideen from Jami'at cooperate with Mujahieen from Hezb in the war against their common enemy, that is. the Soviets and their puppets.
                                                 *******