AFGHANews Vol 5, No 16 & 17, September 1, 1989, page @
Badakhshan province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured Zibak garrison and its 25 posts cm August 9.
The attack was carried out under the command of Sayed Najmuddin, Jami'at commander in Wardooj and Jurm valleys.
Hie Mujahideen captured 340 soldiers and 18 officers including the Deputy Director of WAD in Badakhshan.
The following weapons fell into the hand of the Mujahideen:
1-	PK machine guns	18
2-	ZPU machine guns	3
3-	82mm mortars	3
4-	Gronov machine guns	3
5-	Light weapons	708
6-	76mm gun	1
7-	RPG-9 rocket launchers	3
8-	ASG-17 grenade launchers 8
9-	DSchK machine gun	1
10 Wireless sets	11
11- A large quantity of light and
heavy weapons ammunition, and food.
The enemy lost 76 meii and 31 enemy soldiers were wounded. The Six Mujahideen were killed and 12 were wounded.
After the liberation of Zibak, the Mujahideen captured two enemy posts in Bazgiran and Khooshbak close to bonier town of Eshkashem.
From these posts two mortars, two Gronov machine guns, three wireless sets and some light weapons and am munition were captured
It is reported that the Mujahideen made use Of captured tanks against the enemy positions in Zibak.
While the Mujahideen were busy fighting the regime in Eshkashim, a group affiliated with Hezb (Hikmatyar i attacked Baharak district, the headquarters of Sayed NajmudduL
Sayed Najmuddin was forced to stop fighting in Eshkashim to defend Baharak. Regime forces which were
supported by Soviet long-range artillery and air force were able to recaptured the strategic sub-district of Zibak.
Zibak is located on the road connecting the Pakistan border with Faizabad
By the liberation of Zibak the Mujahideen could have a short supply road useable by vehicle.
Treachery from within, deprived the Mujahideen of a major victory.
Kabul province
The Mujahideen form Jami'at under the command of Mohammad Anwar attacked enemy posts near Tangi Abrishomi on the Kabul-Jalalabad road on August 9.
The enemy posts which were protected by land mines resisted well. The next day Mujahideen were able to bring a section of die road under their control. The regime air force bombed the suspected positions of the Mujahideen along the road and in Jegdalek 80 times in one day.
On August 11, the enemy abandoned some of its posts while the remaining posts of the enemy continued to resist Aerial bombing of the positions of the Mujahideen continued.
On August 12, the Mujahideen captured Tangi Abrishomi post after de stroying one tank and tuck and capturing one duck. Three Mujahideen were injured.
On August 14, the Mujahideen captured a duck loaded with BM-27 rockets. Since die Mujahideen could not take them away they were set on fire.
Our reporter adds that lack of coordination between the Mujahideen of different parties along the road, landmines and extensive aerial bombardments made the job of blocking the road for long periods of time difficult-
Farah province
'
Thirteen Mujahideen and a French
aid worker were killed and two Mujahideen and one aid worker were captured when their convoy on the way to Herat was ambushed in Systan area of Farah by regime forces on August 14.
In the fighting a regime officer and an unknown number of soldiers were also killed. The two French aid workers were carrying artificial limbs for the amputated Mujahideen in Herat.
Herat province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked Herat airport with 122mm rockets on August 3.
Four Helicopters were destroyed on the ground and more than 30 airmen and soldiers were either killed or wounded.
One enemy tank was destroyed and three soldiers were killed when their tank hit a landmine, planted by the Mujahideen on July 27.
One plane was destroyed and six people were killed when the Mujahideen attacked Herat airport with rockets on August 7. The airport terminal and other buildings were hit and one tank and one track were set on fire.
Abdurrahman Ghory, a militia commander, joined Khawja Zabiullah along with his ten followers. He handed over 10 Kalashnikov rifles and one truck to the Mujahideen.
Badghis province
One enemy transport plane and one helicopter were shot down by the Mujahideen near Qala-i-Naw, die provincial capital of Badghis on August
13.
The transport plane of Antonove type crashed two kilometers from Qala-i-New while the helicopter was shot down in Aab Kazy area, 30 kilometers from the town.
Ghulam Yahya, a militia commander joined the Mujahideen in Qala i-Naw with more than 100 of his followers.
Oruzgan province
Fighting for the control of Tereenkot, the provincial capital has continued between the Mujahideen and the communist forces.
Regime air force bombed the Mujahideen position as a result of which 40 people were killed and 20 injured in mid August.
The Mujahideen destroyed six posts killing 20 soldiers.