-I
	 — -			AFGHANews		Vol 8, No 24,		December 15, 1992, page (j
Dijsir	lfori	matic	m can	ipai	gf	i i i i	UN calls for support to Afghanistan
BBC, .in fact, had received the story filed by its reporter in Kabul - contradicting ithe false reports - at least an hour befcjre the BBC’s 1330 news'report, but for reasons which remain unclear, thfc UN-sourced false report, filed froth the far-off BBC Islamabad bureau, was broadcast instead.
Therp were obvious reasons for Radio Teheran and Radio Moscow to use the false reports passed along by their clients. But the UN officials' motives and the unquestioning acceptance of the false reports by the Western media, without checking with their own sources, requires some study.
The Kabul-based UN employees responsible for spreading the false report are Afghans. They were affiliated with the former communist regime, and have secular views.
The abortive Dostum show of force which prompted the coup d’etat rumors could have brought a secular government to power. Rumors of such a coup, led by supporters of the former regime, had been circulating in Kabul's tiny foreign community for weeks. The UN employees who saw pro-government jets flying over Kabul in the aftermath of the previous evening's street clashes were victims of their own i wishful thinking: they merely broadcast their fantasy.
These employees were hired by the UN when Benon Sevan was head of the UN office in Afghanistan. The collapse of his peace plan turned him against ihe Mujahideen; it is quite possible that the Afghan UN workers still share Sevan's antipathy.
The false report issued from the same office in which Najib remains in hiding. It was passed to the outside world over the same satellite telephone which connects Najib to his exiled wife for nightly chats. The possibility that Najib had a hand in spreading the disinformation is not confirmed, but one cannot rule out the possibility. As the former head of KHAD his experience in that regard is vast and probably
of!
Afghanistan should raise the issue of involvement of the UN officials in , Kabul in spreading rumors against the Islamic government to high officials in that organization. It should make clear j that the political immunity of UN officials does not enutle them to engage in activities harmful to the host country. |
The UN should investigate and punish those who misused the name of the UN for political ends. The news agencies must also be more careful iti j reporting stories sourced to UN officials in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
The UN and the foreign media owe * the Afghan people an apology for the role they played in spreading propaganda against the Islamic government and creating worry for Afghans all over the world.
The Islamic government has al- j ways cooperated with foreign journalists and has not put any restriction on ; their journalistic activities. Fonunatcly, j the foreign journalists based in Kabul were not involved in the false December 9 reports. AH were deeply unhappy tfai their bosses accepted the false propaganda spread by irresponsible UN employees.
It worth mentioning that some foreigners. who have been busy spreading false reports against the Islamic government, come to Kabul in the company of some Mujahideen panics without holding valid visas from the Islamic government. One such so-called reporter is Ahmad Muaffaq Zaidan. a Syrian Arab who works closely with Hikmatyar. He came to Kabul, without a valid visa, in the company of Afghan journalists working for foreign organizations. He 1 stayed in the BBC house while filing his reports.
While the Islamic government Should extend all sorts of support to genuine foreign journalists, it should not allow foreign nationals to enter Afghanistan withour proper documents and valid visas. Nor should the government allow political propagandists tc pose as journalists.
Appointments in the North
The Defense Ministry of the Islamic State of Afghanistan has announced the following new appointments in the North of the country:
•	Sayycd Nujmuddin. commander of 6th army corps
•	Mohammad Amir, commander of Kunduz. division
•	Mohammad Arif Khan, deputy commander of Kunduz division
•	Abdul Basir Khalid. commander of Badakhshan division
The 47th session of General Assembly passed resolution on Afghanistan November 25, asking the mt bers states to help the Isla: government in its reconstr tion efforts.
The resolution, proposed by Afghan Mission at the UN, was bated in the General Assembly adopted unanimously.
The resolution asked the gov ment of Afghanistan to work for improvement of security in the corn It called on the member sates international finance organization provide help to Afghanistan in fields of repatriation and rchabiliu of refugees, demining and recons lion of communication and transp tion networks.
The resolution asked the Secretary-General Boutros Ghal send an expert team to Afghanis!* survey the needs of that country, report will provide a guideline foi UN help 10 Afghanistan.
unshes its Christian readets a merry Chris mas and a happy nezv year
I-------1	“
Help us publish
AFGHANews!
Please send your donations to:
Account No. 55008 Bank Milie Afghan VVazir Akber Khan Br. KABUL-AFGHAMSTA>