 i
 i
 I
 i
 *
 j
 t
 I
 i
AFGHANS^ Vol 1 No 10, May 15,1968, Page 5
  Editorial...
   positive for the shaky regime of Najib,
     Najib's dilemma is how to face an internal problem. The people of Afghanistan consider him an infidel communist and a KGB agent. They hold him responsible for the murder of thousands of Afghans. There is no way that Afghans can forgive him.
     The Red Army, with the reputation of clamping down on anti-communist movements was net able to impose the puppet regime on Afghans. How can India help the puppet regime wlch all the problems it is facing itself ?
     Sending the Indian army is out of the question. Sending arms is not a contribution to the regime because the Soviets are providing it with all the arms it needs. Training army personnel cooid help the regime but it needs something else to help its survival. Training could be useful only for long-term purposes,
     India may be willing to help the regime in economic fields but any investment in the regime is very risky because the regime will face destruction after the Soviet troops have left.
     N'ajib encouraged the Indians to mediate between him and Zahir and those whom he called moderate opposition rorces. After all the mistakes that India has committed he can not play a mediator role. Any person coming through india s good offices will be deeply suspected by the Mujahideen. The last mistake Rajive committed was the invitation of Najib to visit India.
     We advise the Indian government not to involve Itself in Afghanistan. The puppet regime is doomed to failure and the Mujahideen cannot trust the Indians because of their hostile attitudes towards the Resistance in the past nine years of occupation.
     India must have learned a lesson from Its close friend, the Soviet Union, and should abstain from any abortive attempt to help the regime In its last days of iife.
Pakistani
                                                                                  ‘I
politicians j support
  7-party
  Alliance
  THE leaders of some of the Pakistani political parlies expressed solidarity j with the Mujahideen Alliance J in a party held on may 8.
  In order to create more understanding among the people of Pakistan, the Mujahideen Alliance invited j a number of Pakistan s political leaders for a dinner j party in Peshawar.
  The party was attended by j some of the Alliance leaders j including Prof. Burhanuddin j Rabbani.
  The Pakistani leaders Included Prof, Ghafoor A ham ad from jamaat islami ; Pakistan and the leaders of Tehrikl Nifaz Fiqh-i-jafrla ! and Jamiat Uiama-i- Islam. ;
  They promised their continued support for the Mujahideen,
  I
Who s who of Mujahideen
  commander Panji
     PAN jl, 32, was born in a small village called Jangai Hareeq in Aqcha district of Jawzjan province. His father. Tanger Bairdi, had immigrated from Bukhara when the j Russians occupied that | Islamic city known as the j cradle of Islamic culture, Panii, now deputy } commander of Jami at in ; Jawzjan province, was before | Jehad a farmer and a known : horse rider.
     His father was not able to ! send him to school since he : was the only member of the i family who helped his father
J
 on the limited land they had. He was brought up anti-Russian because his father told him the horrible stories of the atrocities committed by the Red Army in Tajekistan.
   "I was working in the field when ? saw a group of Mujahideen ambushing a puppet regime s convoy. The group commander explained the reason why he was fighting against the Communist regime. Then i joined them." said Psnji,
   Panis said that he was working part time in the field
 and the rest with the Mujahideen, After one year he become a group commander of 30 Mujahideen. Panji who arrived in Peshawar three weeks ago said that at the beginning of the war capturing Communist posts was easy.
    Commander Panji has participated in more than 200 small and big operations against Russian-DRA forces in the past seven years. He has been wounded six times. Panji was appointed as Jamiat j Island's Deputy Commander j in Jawzjan province In 1084. j
    He is married and has a son. He belongs to Turkman j ethnic group who mainly live j in the North of Afghanistan.