AFGHANews Vol 8, No 3, February 1,1992, page ©
Australian Senator launches Afghanistan peace mission
Mahmoud Saikal
Australian federal opposition Social Security Minister, Liberal MP, Senator Richard Alston met Afghan Mujahideen leaders in Pakistan, Najibullah in Kabul, and is planning to meet former king, Zahir Shah, in Rome to see if the Australian Government could help Afghanistan, said his Boxhill (Vic) Electorate office secretary on 14 January.
In Pakistan, Alston met National Liberation Front leader Sebghatullah Mujaddidi and Jami'at Island's Political Office head Dr. Najibullah Lafraie. He also visited some of the Afghan refugee camps.
Details of Alston’s discussions with Mujaddidi and Lafraie are not known yet. Mujaddidi could not be contacted and Lafraie had gone to Cairo to attend the OIC Information and Culture Ministers conference.
In Kabul Najibullah told Alston that Australia should help the Afghans achieve stability. Alston said Australia would try to help bring peace to the nation.
This is the first time an Australian politician shows deep interest in the Afghanistan issue.
An Australian Foreign Affairs official said Alston's visit to Pakistan and Afghanistan and his meetings with Mujahideen leaders and Najibullah was in his personal capacity and had nothing to do with the Australian government
Alston’s electorate office said he was on a tour of India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, England, Egypt and Ethiopia and is due back in Australia on 3 February.
In March 1987, after a request from the "Afghan Australia Council" and the support and encouragement of the then Archbishop of Melbourne, Alston became the chairman of the council. Afghan Australia Council was a coalition of four Afghan community (mostly refugees) organizations in Melbourne. By the end of 1989 however, the council was weaker and Alston left, the position. Today, some of the founding members of the council believe that Alston's interest in Afghanistan is purely for his own political campaign.
However, some other members believe he genuinely struggled for the withdrawal of the Soviet forces from Afghanistan.
What role Australia could play in the Afghan issue:
Since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, December 1978, Australia's toughest response has been the boycott of the Moscow 1980 Olympic Games. In 1983, Australia approved a position for the representation of the then "Islamic Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen" which was occupied by two successive members of Hezb Island (Hikmatyar). After two years, however, the alliance was dissolved. But Hezb Island's representatives continued to operate under the name of the Alliance. In 1990 the Australian government refuges to renew the then representative's visa. In January 1989 Jami'at Island Afghanistan opened its representation in Australia.
Throughout the years of soviet invasion the Australian government refused to recognize the Kabul regime and gave its moral support to the Mujahideen.
Bill Hayden, during his years of Foreign Affairs ministry, went to Pakistan and held talks with JIA leader Prof. Rabbani. In April 1989, shortly after the formation of Mujahideen's Afghan interim government (AIG) its Foreign Affairs Minister Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, visited Australia and held talks with the Australian Foreign Affairs Minister Senator Gareth Even, during which Australia continued to give its moral support to the Mujahideen. However, diplomatic efforts of the above nature have not been consistent and the outcomes of the meetings have not been followed seriously.
Since the Soviet withdrawal of Afghanistan, the Australian stand on Afghanistan has leaned towards neutrality.
During the 13 years of war in Afghanistan, the Australian international Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) and other non-governmental aid organizations, namely Austcare, have financed various projects in relation to millions of Afghan refugees, through other Western aid organizations based in Pakistan. In 1991, AIDAB approved a sum of $500,000 to finance some of the mostly International aid organizations' projects for Afghan refugees.
Since the Soviet invasion, Australia has allowed some thousands of Afghan refugees to come to Australia.
United States resumes its relief aid
American humanitarian aid to Afghans was resumed when a US aid worker, Joel DeHart, being held captive by a Hezb Island (Hikmatyar) commander for six months in Ghazni, was released on January 5.
In 1992 the US will continue its support for 3,000 health clinics. 1,100 primary schools, the construction of 200 kilometers of major roadways and the repair and replacement of bridges damaged during the war. In addition, the US will finance more than 1,000 rural public works projects and provide about 25 percent of the country's fertilizer needs. Total value of the programme in 1992 will exceed $60 million.
The 34-year old DeHart was handed over by Hezb Island to Gerald Feicrstein, US Council in Peshawar on January 5. Dr. Mark Morris of the private voluntary agency "Global Partners," which had sent DeHart into Afghanistan, was also present on the occasion.
DeHart was seized on July 6 in the Jaghori area of Ghazni Also seized was 66-year old William Leweis with whom DeHart worked as a translator. The two Americans had altered Afghanistan in June to train Afghans in animal inoculation.
William Lewis was freed on October 20 through the intervention of Sayyed Ahmad Gailani.
A Hezb official said that their party commander Akhund Salman had act ed on his own when he detained DeHart.
USAID intends to pay the salaiy of the teachers of primary schools in the refugee camps in Pakistan. Due to shortage of funds, many schools run by the political parties were either closed or are facing great difficulties.
Help us publish AFGHANews!
Please send your donations to die following account number:
JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan