flFDHHH HEUG VGL.III, NO. 19, 15f9/199?,PnGE 6
                                      PAKTIKA PROVINCE
August 21.1987; The central Tulaba (religious students) front of j.i.a. and Al-Me'rag front under the command of Maulawi Ghulam launched a joint attack with Mujahideen of other organizations on Khairkot garrison. They destroyed four vehicles and 12 rooms in the garrison. Several enemy troops were also killed and wounded. One Mujahid, Nazar Muhammad, was martyred and six others were injured.
INTERVIEW WITH AHMAD SHAH MASOUD                 «
            < PART 11)
Following is the second part of the text of an interview with Ahmad Shah Masoud, the famous cammander of Mujahideen in the North. He was interviewed by Abdul Hafiz, a member of the Political office of J.I.A., in Worsaj sub-district af Takhar province on July 21,1987. Part I of the interview H/as on the war situation and part III will be on the activities of the Supervisory.Council of the North.
Q. What do you think about "national reconciliation" and formation of a coal ition government announced by the Kabul regime? what has been your practical response?
A. In my view, "national reconciliation” is only a cover by which the Russians want to hide their continuous military defeats in Afghanistan and also their political failures in the communist party. Moreover, at the international scene they want to creat a rift among the friends of Jihad. Among Mujahideen also they want to create divisions and separate some forces from Jihad,
In general, in my mind puppet, government's "nationul reconciliation's nothing but a ruse by which the Russians want to achieve their evil aims. They hope it provides Najib the opportunity to stabalize iiis regime, strengthen his army and make better preparations for future fightings.
At the beginning when "national reconciliation" was announced, we held a meeting of the Mujahideen of the Northern Afghanistan and some other parts. The brothers unanimously rejected the "national reconciliation” scheme. We announced our decision through a proclamation at that time.
0. What do you think about Zaher shah?
A. The fact that the (puppet) government is ready to accept Zaher shah is a clear indication of Russians’ failure at the military' field. Zaher Shah was not acceptable to Mujahideen in the past, however, and he is still unacceptable.
                                       . .»►. - .
Q. But in his interviews, zaher shah calls himself a servant of the people of Afghanistan, not their future king. Why do Mujahideen not want Zaher shah to serve his homeland and his
people?