-AFGHANews	Vol 5, No 2, January 15, 1989, page 8
Soviet envoy offers authonomy for
Jami'at
loses
commander
Shafaq, 39, Jami'at Islami commander in the strategic Bagram district was killed on October 31 in fighting against die communist forces.
Enayatullah Shafaq emerged as an effective Mujahideen commander in Bagram and organized a relatively strong front against the Soviets and the communist regime. The area he was operating in was important because of the Bagram air base and the road connecting Kabul to the Soviet which passes the west of the district.
Shafaq who was educated in the topography school of Kandahar showed that he had the qualities of leadership. Since Shafaq was coining from a religious family and was a good Muslim himself, he was respected by the people in Bagram.
His death was a loss for the Mujahideen. His brother, Gul Agha, has been chosen by the Mujahideen in his place.
One week ago a funeral ceremony was held in Peshawar to pray for his soul. Besides hundreds of Mujahideen Professor Rabbani, Jami'at leader also attended the ceremony. In a speech delivered on the occasion. Prof. Rabbani who had met Shafaq several times and for the last time during his trip to Panjshir, praised him for his services to Jehad.
See also obituary on page (4 )
Mujahideen ignore ceasefire call
THE Mujahideen ignored the Soviets' and the Kabul regime's call for a ceasefire starting from January 1.
The head of the Kabul regime, Dr. Najib, announced a unilateral ceasefire on the radio and Television.
Gorbachev had proposed a ceasefire starting on the new year.
This was the third unilateral ceasefire announced by the regime and its Soviet masters which was ignored.
The Mujahideen rejected the offer and called a design to protect the communist regime. Reports about fighting from different parts of Afghanistan indicate that the proposed ceasefire is not observed by both sides.
Hazarajat
THE spokesman of he eight-party Alliance based in Iran said that his Coalition has rejected the Soviets proposal to give autonomy to the Hazarajat area in return for participation in a coalition government with the Kabul regime.
Mohammad Karim Khalili, the current spokesman of the eight-party coalition of Mujahideen who has come as the head of a delegation to Pakistan gave an - exclusive interview to Afghanews in Islamabad on January 8. Ho said that Soviet repeated to Mujahideen in Iran what they have told the Alliance delegation in Taif. In the Tehran talks a new element was the proposal of autonomy for Hazarajat where most Shias live. This proposal was rejected by the Mujahideen, Khalili said.
Khalili, 38, was bom in Behsood district of Maidan province. He received private education and contacted some members of the Islamic movement at Kabul University. In 1981 Khalili went to Iran and there laid the foundation of the Nasr party with the help of his friends. Khalili spends most of his time in Tehran working for his party. He is the representative of his party in eight-party coalition. He is the current' spokesman of the Coalition.
The coalition of eight-party based in Iran is composed of Jehad Islami, Nasr, Jabha-i-Muttahid Islami, Pasdaran, Daawat-i-lslami, Harakat-i-Islami headed by Shaikh Asif Mohsini, Nairo and Hezbullah headed by Ahmad Ali. Six parties in the coalition are led by collective leadership in the form of a council. Each party has introduced one representative in the supreme council
Regime closes Hochest plant
The Hoechist Pharmaceutical plant in Kabul ceased production in mid-December due to shortages of supplies. The plant which was built by a German firm is located in Kabul.
Due to the risky routes bringing supplies to Kabul has became difficult
and one representative in, the coordination council. The spokesman of the coalition is chosen on rotational basis from the members of the supreme council for a period of three months.
Khalili said he had come to' talk to the seven-party Alliance and Pakistan officials. He also participated in the talks held with the Soviets in Islamabad.
Khalili said his delegation will meet the leaders of the Alliance and discuss with them ways of cooperation among the two Alliances.
In reply to a question about the support of the Iran government to the Mujahideen, Khalili said that the Mujahideen's activities are free. Since Iran was engaged in a war with Iraq, it could not help the Mujahideen. Now that the war is over, it is hoped that the Islamic republic will be able to help the Mujahideen. On the political front Iran has been supporting the Mujahideen and will continue to do so.
The spokesman of the eight-party coalition said that the Soviet delegation met the Mujahideen delegation twice on 2 and 3 January in the headquarters of the Coalition in Teheran.
When he was asked why his Coalition met separately with the Soviets after it was asked by the Mujahideen Alliance not to do so, he replied that such a request was not made by the Alliance. He added that when the Alliance delegation went to Taif, it gave the Coalition a right to meet Soviets separately at least once.
About getting aid from Western countries, Khalili was of the opinion that the coalition of eight-party is not against getting aid from any country provided no strings are attached to it. He said that due to religious ties the Mujahideen parties based in Iran have special ties with Iran, but Iran has its own interest and the interest of Afghanistan is separate.
Khalili was of the opinion that after the Soviet withdrawal the people of Afghanistan will keep their unity because all of them believe in Islam.
He favored formation of a selected Shoora from the two Alliances to form the transitional government, to draft constitution and to pave the way for general	elections.