AFGHANews Vol 8, No 13, July 1, 1992, page @
Poor journalism hurts Afghans
Fairness and impartiality are the two qualities of good journalism. A biased reporter misleads his readers. In a country like Afghanistan where political, ideological, regional, religious and linguistic differences have complicated the situation, reporters ought to be very careful in their reporting to avoid distorting facts and ensure that readers get a balanced picture of the situation.
The most dangerous threat to balanced reporting is the political affiliation of journalists to one of the parties in the conflict. Afghan Jehad has been witness to numerous examples of good and bad journalism in both sides of the conflict. For example, Indian journalists' reporting on Afghan affairs, regardless of the agency or publication for which they work, ■ is rarely balanced.
The Indian bias towards the former communist regime, their suspicions of the Mujahideen, their fears about the Tricndly relations between the Mujahideen .and Pakistan and their worries about the spread of revolutionary Islam influence their reporting.
Compare, for example, the work of Depak Tripathi, an Indian-born BBC reporter, and Chris Bowers, the BBC journalist who replaced him in 1991. Tripalhi’s reporting was a classic example of an Indian journalist's failure to, remain impartial and avoid political and ideological traps.
The dark picture painted recently by Pratap Chakaravati, an Indian reporter for AFP, was another. His talcs -rife with errors of fact - seemed calculated to give foreign readers a false im-
pression of the degree of chaos in Kabul and neglected the Islamic government's efforts to keep the situation under control.
For this reason virtually every foreign guest coming to Kabul says dial he found Kabul more peaceful titan he had read in the foreign press.
Sometimes a lack of sensitivity can create a bad impression. During a recent Friday sermon at a Kabul mosque, a well-known mawlavi criticized a foreign journalist whom he said he had seen "clinging like a monkey" to the turret of a speeding lank during early July's o*peration to drive shadowy armed groups from the city. The journalist may simply have been looking for the quickest way to get to a good story. But the mawlavi cited this as an example of foreigners who fan the flames of discord among Muslims.
Another bad example has been set by an Arab journalist. Ahmad Zaidan, who writes for Al-Hayal, an Arabic paper, and also reports for the French national radio service, has access to a Hczb Islami (Hikmalyar) satellite telephone in Charasyab, south of Kabul, to file his reports.
Zaidan has been busy reporting the war in Afghanistan from Peshawar for many years. He is known to be a sympathizer of Hczb Islami of Hikmalyar, but denies it.
How could Zaidan claim to be an impartial reporter if he uses the communication facilities of a political party engaged in war with the government in Kabul? Zaidan's recent stories, which have appeared on Arabic papers,, arc strongly biased towards the views of Hezb. This revelation regarding his filing procedures explains the reason.
General Dostum is alive
The rumor about the death of General Dostum and Babrak Karmal in a plane crash turned out to be disinformation.
VOA and some Pakistani papers had reported, quoting Commander Haqqani, that Babrak and Dostum were travelling with some of their senior aides from Mazar to Kabul when their plane crashed near the capital.
The news was immediately rejected by General Dostum. A group of journalists were invited to Jawzjan to see that the General was alive.
Sources close to Dosium said the news was aimed at creating instability and chaos.
Making use of the occasion, the foreign journalists asked Dostum about his view on transfer of power from Mujaddidi to Rabbani. He said this was the job of the Leadership Council and Jihadi Council to decide jointly and he would respect their decision. He said his main concern was securing the right of ethnic minorities and both Mujaddidi and Prof. Rabbani had promised to protect the rights of minorities when they visited Mazar.
BBC quoted Dosium saying that Loya Jirgas (tradition assemblies of tribal elders) had not been taken any decisions in the past which had been useful to the nation.
Pakistan has appointed Amir Usman as the ambassador of that ountry in Kabul. Although Pakistan id not cut its diplomatic tics with the; communist regime in Kabul, it rc-uccd contact with the regime to the ounsellor level. During the commu^ ist rule, Pakistani diplomats in Kabul, ahd j regime dijjlomais in Islamabad x were busy^^oceivmg irote^st letters from their host countries accusing each other of interfer-mg in each other’s internal affairs.
The Deputy Foreign Minister of Egypt discussed relations of his coun try witlt:|iSp Afghan leaders. pVj'
He met Prof. Mujaddidi, Prof. Rabbani and Ahmad Shah Masood. Participation of Egypt in reconstruction of Afghanistan was discussed by hb two skies. Egypt supported the Afghan Mujahideen and it was the irst country to send consignments of irihs and ammunition to them immediately; afterv the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.: ‘if!:!*
If Floods ahd land slides have killed seven people and destroyed eight houses in Teshkan and Darayem areas of Badakhshan, Bakhtar News Agency reported. V$an||:;|||S|^
3^ j^magi^i	^	J
A representative of Badakhshan province, Lutfullah Jahid, has said that the people of Badakhshan were suffering from shortages of food and
• TheJhead of' the Leadership Council, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani met with the head of South Asia ritish Foreign
situation in Afghanistan and bilateral
British government for its support to the Mtij^ide^n and asked for partici
Afghanistan.
The British delegation had cohie to Kabaljo study the. possiLility of rc-opening that cOtintf^s embassy in the capital;