RFJHfflH HEMS UOL, 14II, HO. 10, 15/S/1W*?,lFRflE 4
                                        SAMANGAN PROVINCE
20/4/1987. According to a report from Samangan province,Mujahideen from Jami'at ambushed an enemy jeep on Pul-i-Khumry-Mazar highway and and killed its occupants which were estimated at ten men The report adds that Mujahideen also attacked several enemy outposts around the city of Khulm and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. Communists, in retaliation, heavily bombed the surrounding villages and forced about one thousand people from the area to flee to safer areas
4/4/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the enemy posts in Ziraki area in Dara-i-Souf district. They killed one enemy soldier and wounded two others. Mujahideen captured ten enemy soldiers and seized 16 guns of different types The report, however, does not give any figures for the casualties of the Mujahideen
                                       NANGARHAR PROVINCE
13/4/1987. Mujahideen from Jami’at attacked Ghani Khail regiment And other posts around district headquarters in Ghani Kahil and Aachin districts. The enemy suffered causualties the number of which was not immediately known Mujahideen in these areas usually make use of heavy weapons like, 107 mm. rockets against the enemy positions.
14/4/1987. Mujahideen in Muhmand Dara attacked militia posts in Hazar Naw village as a result of which two militias were killed and two others wounded. Mujahideen suffered no casualties. -
                                           BALKH PROVINCE
17/4/1987. Soviet-DRA forces launched an attack against the Mujahideen in Sholgar district. Fighting continued for three days as a result of which 17 Mujahideen were martyred and about one hundred civilians were injured The Mujahideen claim that they shot down three enemy jets during the fighting but do not mention which type of weapon was used against the planes. Mujahideen destroyed six enemy AFVs and killed or wounded an unkown number of the enemy sodiers. The Mujahideen s hospital in Sholgar was destroyed by the communist forces. The invading forces retreated after three days of fighting
Sholgar district is controlled mainly by Mujahideen from Jami'at
                                     FROM THE DIARY OF JEHAD
                                          THE END OF AN OFFENSIVE
The Soviets' third offensive against the Panjshir valley which had continued for 21 days came to an end. The enemy left the valley on 27 December 1980. The whole valley and all the mountains surrounding it were covered with snow. People who had just returned from the mountains had mixed feeling of joy and sorrow.
They were happy because an offensive had ended and the enemy had totally evacuated the valley. They were happy because the enemy had suffered heavy casualties in men and material.
What the Soviets had done to their mosques, houses and cattle was saddening The most painful thing was the loss of relatives and friends, some of whom were very old and not able to move to the safe places at the start of the attack. They were either killed or burned and left un-buried in their villages. Houses were burned, mosques and Holy books disgraced, cattle killed and property looted. The Mujahideen had lost five important men in one combat which was a relatively high figure for such a war. One of the martyred was a 17 year old Mujahid who was killed two meters away from the positions of the enemy. Another was an ex-teacher and a mortar gunner of the