r
I
RFGHfiH
NEUS UOL.Il!,
KO.23,   1/12/19®?,Ffi« ft
 (religious scholars) support the Mujahideen and the elders are consulted through the people s committee,
 Aryan poor was 'sell respected by the people and many people to Thom I talked admired him for his simplicity, hard work and honesty
 From Keshin main valley 5 vent to Teshkan a valley parallel to the main valley . There I met Sayed Mubyuddin (he leader of the Mujahideen in Teshkan. He is an old man who once was an MP tn the Afghanistan National Assembly He was a good lighter in the first two years against the Communist regime but latter due to local problems he just fought a defensive war fie is an admirer of Masood and is trying to improve his fighting abilities
 The people in Teshkan were poor Farming land is limited There is a relatively good * hospital in this valley where some French volunteer doctors have been working for-some years 1 also visited some Madrasas in Teshkan
 The people in Keshm are pro-Mujahideen Ulema (religious scholars) are supporting the Jshac! There are enough young cadres to take the responsibility of administrations! and educational works The future of this area is promising because of its land, people
 and leadership of the Resistance .
                              CONFERENCE TO CELEBRATE RECENT VICTORIES
 The victory of the Mujahideen in capturing the fieran Garrison was celebrated in a lofty conference in Peshawar on November 19
 In the Conference, which was organized by J.I.A a large number of Mujahideen, refugees including those wounded and disabled by Russian atrocities students of various schools and Muurasas and foreign and Afghan journalists took part.
 The Conference begun with the recitation of few verses from the Holy Quran at about 9:15 a.is. Ustad Shadab was the first r-peaker. He was followed by Baud Mir (a member of januats office in France), Mohammad Yunus t'Mnooni (Representative of the Supervisory Council of the North), Sultan Mohammad Awrang (Representative of Ksshra front). Dr Abdul Hay (President of j.l As Education Committee) and Qari Hayatuilah (Vice-President of j l.A s Refugee Committee)
                                                       3
 At the end of the conference profRabbam gave a long speech. He congratulated all the Mujahideen for their victory in Keraa and prayed for those martyred in the operation. Referring u> an incident during the fighting, he said Russian's moral is so low- that they do not darv ever louse their fighter planes against the Mujahideen "
 After talking sooat the military situation in Afghanistan ProfKabbam discussed the political situation and 3aid, the enemy tried very hard to change the vote for the UN Resolution in its favor fi launched an intensive propaganda campaign about its so called National Reconciliation policy' it sent delegations to more than 60 Asian, African and Latin American countries. It introduced amendments u> the Resolution In spite cf all these efforts, however, the number of votes in support of the Afghan Mujahideen did not go down Not only that, but there was even one more vote supporting the Resolution which demanded the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of the foreign (Russian troops) from Afghanistan This is a clear indication of tha fact that the Russians have failed ai the political level as well."
 Earlier Mr Qammi had focused on the activities of SON (Supervisory Council of the North) in his speech Talking about the Council s historical background, he described commander Masood s activities in the Panjshir and the Russian s attempts to destroy the Pamshir Front or at toast to assassinate its leader Failing in those attempts, they decided to keep the Panjshir Mujahideen busy in their valley and prevent the expansion of their order, discipline and well-planned activities in other areas. But they failed in chat plan as well, and the SON was established.