AFGHANews Vol 6, No 13, July 1,1990, page ©
opportunity for military maneuvers to attack the roads and major cities, should they wish.
The Mujhid lifestyle makes them economically self-sufficient The Mujahideen retain control of farmlands. People in liberated areas are self sufficient. Electricity is not necessary in the countryside, and pack animals could be used for transportation. Because of this simple rustic lifestyle, the Mujahideen are economically self-sufficient.
The Mujahideen are united in the idea of throwing out the communist regime from power. Regime efforts to persuade the Mujahideen into compromise have proved unsuccessful.
The Mujahideen’s experience in guerrilla warfare has made them a formidable force. The Kabul regime may survive for sometime, but to. wipe out the resistance, and establish its rule over all Afghanistan will be impossible. The regime is aware of these problems, and because of this claims there could be no military solution. After attempts to move on to a conventional phase, the Mujahideen have resorted to old guerrilla tactics. Future tactical changes will come as a natural part of development of the war.
The Mujahideen suffer from some shortcoming which has delayed their victory. Some of these shortcomings are:
•Lack of unity
•Lack of experience in conventional warfare
•Dependence on outside support
•Lack of political and military organization to compete with the Kabul regime.
Alack of unity among the Mujahideen is a major problem. On the military front, the Mujahideen do not have a single high command to coordinate activities and evolve a workable strategy to win the war. Lack of coordination on a national level is not forcing the Kabul regime to fight in several fronts at the same time. Although in some regions the Mujahideen cooperate with each other, total coordination only comes when a single high command is formed..
Work towards the creation of a high command has begun. If these efforts are supported by the political parties, a military unity will be achieved in the future.
The Mujahideen also lack the necessary unity In the political front The formation of the Afghan Interim Government was an attempt to unify opponents of the regime. For various reasons it never achieved its goal.
The Mujahideen have no experi-
ence in convention warfare with which to attack cities. This can only be achieved through training a regular force.
Dependence of the resistance on the outside military and humanitarian assistance is another source of weakness. After the Soviet troops withdrawal the world's interest has faded from the cause. The countries supporting the Mujahideen now look for a way out of the problem.
Such an attitude from supporters of the resistance might result on pressure on the Mujahideen to accept a deal detrimental to its goal of self determination. After examining the strength and weaknesses of both sides, we can answer the two questions asked earlier.
The regime cannot win because of its narrow political base, partial control over key territory and chronic shortages of manpower. These shortcomings are not easily curable. They prevent the regime from launching large offensives to relieve the cities from Mujahideen pressure, and expand its control over the countryside.
Furthermore, fighting a expensive defensive war for a long period of time with the support of an outside force is unthinkable. The Soviet Union's patience and 'generosity' has a limit. Mr. Gorbachev faces numerous problems at home and worries about his international image. Pouring large quantities of weapons into Kabul to prop up an unpopular regime indefinitely raises questions about the Soviet leader's intentions for world peace.
Gorbachev's Afghan policy is being questioned at home. Why must the Soviet people, who face food shortage themselves, allow their leaders to give 400 million dollars a month to a regime which is not able to bring peace to Afghanistan. Assistance to the Kabul regime has obviously prolonged the war.
The Mujahideen have a potential to win . Their difficulties are not so great as to prevent a final victory. The quicker they coordinate their activities, the sooner a victory will be achieved. Thus, all assistance to the Mujahideen, both militarily and politically, contributes to the return of peace in Afghanistan.
To demonstrate this point, the Mujahideen have exposed the weak points of the Kabul regime. It will help if the Soviets realize their mistake in supporting Najibullah and cease wasting their time with unreasonable compromises favoring the communists. A coordinated military action against the regime will make the point.
Kabul, Delhi sign economic accord
The foreign minister of the Kabul regime, Abdul Wakil, signed an agreement on economic cooperation with the Indian government, during his five day visit to New Delhi beginning June 11.
Wakil visited India at the head of a delegation to participate in the meeting of economic commission of the two countries.
During his stay in India he met with the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of India.
India is the closest ally of the Kabul regime after Soviet Union. The change of government in India has not changed the policy of that country towards Afghanistan.
Wakil told reporters that he was satisfied with the policy of India towards Afghanistan.
India is the main trading partner with the regime outside the communist block. After the Soviet troops withdrawal and changes in East Europe, Najibullah relies more heavily on Indian support.
Pakistani support for the Afghan Mujahideen is resented by India. Indian policy towards Afghanistan is also shaped by its close ties with Moscow. Because of this, India failed to openly criticize the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
The Prime Minister of India invited Najib to visit that country. The visit might take place after the Congress of the People's Democratic Party.
Shelter Now compensated
Shelter Now. International was compensated for damages inflicted to it by angry protester about two months ago. A cheque for Rs. S million (227,000 US dollars) was presented to the president of the committee, by the NWFP Chief Minister, in a meeting held in Nasir Bagh Refugees Camp . US and Australian ambassadors and workers of some relief organizations were present in the meeting.
On June 16,1990, unidentified gunmen fired at Shelter Now President, Thor Armstrong's car. Both Armstrong and his son, who was in the car at the time, were not hurt. The incident has caused anxiety among foreign relief workers working in the NWFP.
The AIG has soundly condemned violence against relief organization, since it hurts the cause of all Afghans.