AFGHANews Vol 7, No 18, September 15,1991, page
Following is the text of Commander Ahmad Shah Masood's interview with Abdul Hafiz Mansoor. He was interviewed in Keskm District, Badakhshan Province, on August 31.
Hafiz: How do you evaluate the recent victories of the Supervisory Council?
Masood: The recent victories 'were achieved by implementation of the plan approved by the Council of Commanders last year. The purpose of the plan was to break the military stalemate in favor of the Mujahideen and move towards the final defeat of the regime. The operations were unprecedented. In a short period of time, five districts and four sub-districts were freed from control of the Kabul regime. We captured a lot of light and heavy weapons which will be used against the enemy in our future operations.
Hafiz: The people of Afghanistan want to see that die Kabul regime is defeated quickly. What is your plan to achieve this goal?
Masood: The late victories has broken the stalemate in favor of the Mujahideen. The Kabul regime has taken a defensive posture. The enemy’s morale has been weakened. The Mujahideen's morale is high. They are more united and coordination among them is good. They have gained experience in large-scale operations and have captured enough heavy weapons. They are in position to carry out operations against major enemy targets. We are moving from the countryside towards the cities as it was envisaged in the plan approved by the Council of Commanders.
Hafiz: Some people think that your step-by-step strategy is aimed at weakening the rival Mujahideen parties in addition to driving out the Kabul regime. What is your answer to this accusation?
Masood: I reject this view. In the operations carried out so far, the parties involved have become more popular and stronger after liberating more areas and capturing more weapons. Those fronts did not take part in fighting against the enemy lost their influence and became weak.
Hafiz: Will the fall of Jalalabad or Gerdiz change the strategy of the Council?
Masood: The fall of Jalalabad and Gerdiz is in line with the plan approved by the Council of Commanders.
Hafiz: What is your opinion about the UN five-point plan?
Masood: The UN plan include some vague items which need clarification.
Hafiz: What is the strategy of the Kabul regime against the Mujahideen?
Masood: Defence of cities and gradual expansion of its influence to the strategic areas under control of the Mujahideen are the main items of the regime's strategy.
Hafiz: Some people say the power straggle between the Council and Hezb of Hikmatyar is the main reason for the survival of the Kabul regime. What do you say to this allegation?
Masood: No doubt we, like other ■ Mujahideen parties, have problems with Hezb, but this cannot be the main factor for the survival of the regime. -
Hafiz: Hezb and Jami'at decided last year to solve their problems through holding elections, but the plan failed. What is your {dan for reducing tension between the two parties?
Masood: The favorable climate fix-holding elections which was created after the agreement between Hezb and Jami'at was spoiled by an assassination attempt (on Masood) in Taliqan in which some Hezb people were involved. There is no fresh plan at the moment
Hafiz: What is the effect of changes in Soviet Union on the Kabul regime? What specific steps are you going to take in this regard?
Masood: Since the Kabul regime
is dependent on the Soviet Union on a number of ways, these changes will have a devastating effect on it I will adjust my {dans to the evolving situation.
Hafiz: It is said that you had established contacts with the leaders erf SAZA and SAFZA. What was the result of these contacts while we were a witness to fighting between your forces and the two factions in the past few months?
Masood: After the Mujahideen leaders announced general amnesty, I asked the leaders of SAZA and SAFZA to abandon their animosity towards Islam and the Mujahideen and surrender to us. They did not accept my offer. I was forced to capture their areas by force.
Hafiz: Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) repeatedly promises a final assault on Kabul. What do you think the form of this assault could be?
Masood: Lack of cooperation with ‘other fronts in the past and defection in military structure of Hezb has prevented its fronts from developing into an effective fighting force. Hezb does not have the ability to launch decisive attack on Kabul. I think, and new informations support my view, dud Hezb want to take power through a coup with the help erf the supporters of Shah Nawaz Tanai. I have doubts about the success of such an attempt
Ahmad Shah Masood is the chairman of the Supervisory Council, a military organization belonging to Jami'at Islami of Afghanistan. The Council operates in 13 provinces of North-Esast Afghanistan, including Kabul. It has established a civilian administration which provides security, health and education services to the people
Help us publish AFGHANews!
Please send your donations to the following account number:
JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan