                              II JKL-1I______US---------PACES
          I also send you a small gift of a poem.
          Along the silent street an Afghan woman walked. Achilcl she carried strapped behind her hack.
          In a flash the sky of blue transformed to red,
          ■\nd neath the thundrous roar
          The woman lost her step
          Peoples of the world wish not to fight
          As children need to laugh
          So they to toy do have their right.
 Interview with Prof. Burhanuddin Rabhani
 Soviets Cannot seal Border
    "I Do not know of any U.S. Aid"
 On June 19, 1986 Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, a top leader of the Afghan mujahideen, was interviewed in Washington, D.C. by. Br. Kaukab Siddique, Editor-in-chief of New Trend.' Thanks for arranging the interview and for translation from Farsi to English go to three Afghan brothers, Br. Kohistani, Br. Areef, and Br, Jahed, alt of them from Jamiate island Afghanistan which has its strongholds in Panjshir valley, Badakhshan province (on the Soviet frontier) and in the Herat region.)
  The following is an edited summary of the interview, prepared with comments by the editor of New Trend.
 For a person who.faces death at the hands of Soviet agents on a daily basis. Prof. Rabbani is an extremely calm, even placid personality, though in his eyes you can see the glint of the steeled Islamic struggler. He dresses very neatly in cool, loosely fitting, Afghan garments with a traditional turban on his head. He smiles gently and talks without pretensions. He is fluent in Farsi, but speaks and understands Pushtu, Urdu, Arabic, and English to a lesser or a greater degree.
  Why is it that none of the Muslim countries have recognized the mujahideen, 1 asked? He smiled deprecating!)' unwilling to criticize the Muslim countries, and mentioned the affiliations which Muslim countries have. {Pakistan, Iran, Iraq, and most other Muslim countries have diplomatic relations with the USSR but do not recognize the mujahideen.) About his trip to the US, Prof. Rabbani pointed out that he met President Reagan, member* of the U.S. Congress and various Senators. The U.S. government however told him that the U.S, has diplomatic relations with the (Soviet-installed) Kabul regime and at this time the U.S. is not ready to recognize the mu jahideen. The U.S. considers itself more effective if it maintains its links with Kabul. Prof. Rabbani tried to look at the situation more positively; he was of the view that the U.S. is waiting for Muslim governments to recognize the mujahideen first. (Personally i see this as a very ironic situation: for instance, Iran has been criticizing Prof. Rabbani's trip to the U.S. but maintains its own diplomatic relations with the USSR. 1 realised how Yasir Arafat must have felt when he went to Moscow for help and was criticized.)
  Prof. Rabbani was very careful not to criticize the host government of Pakistan, hut firmly and clearly he pointed out that the mujahideen cannot accept any agreement to which they are not a party; also that he is asking the count ries of the world to deal directly with the Afghans instead of going through "third parties", obviously a reference to Pakistan.
  Have $500 million reached the mujahideen from the U.S.? 1 wanted to know. Prof, Rabbani denied any knowledge of any aid reaching the mujahideen from America. Having sounded a little too critical, he then softened his statement by saying that: "Some money may have been, probably has been spent by the (Pakistani) officials, among the refugees, to provide shelter, food, medicines. This could have happened, but it is not in our knowledge." 1 took the opportunity to
 point out to the mujahid leader that people like Selig Harrison and other anti-Islam elements stir up the stories about "CIA aid" whenever the Soviets launch an offensive; the Zionists who control the media here are worried that the Muslim Afghans may gain popular support in the United States.
   in reply to another question. Prof. Rabbani stated that the Soviets cannot seal the Afghan-Pakistan border. If you knew the border, he said, you would realise why. There are simply too many paths and routes and the border is very long and winding. The Soviets would need a million troops to sea) it.
   In answer to a question about Ms. Benazir Bhutto's trip to Peshawar, Prof. Rabbani agreed that there has been an improvement in the PPP leader's stance about the Afghans; no national leader in Pakistan can ignore the plight of the Afghan people.
   Coming back to the stories of CIA aid for the mujahideen, Prof. Rabbani pointed out that if the mujahideen gain recognition, they will be able to scotch such rumors by questioning those who are spreading such stories. For instance, in Congress itseself the issue could be raised and such claims could be challenged.
   Militarily, sail} Prof. Rabbani, the mujahideen are fighting hard and doing very well by the highest standards. Iran, he said, has not given any military help. An end to the war between Iran and Iraq, he said, would benefit the Afghan mujahideen.
   Prof. Rabbani, in a message to the readers of New Trend, said that he has been receiving New Trend in his offices in Pakistan. He urged the readers of New Trend to remember that the struggle in Afghanistan is a Jihad and it is a struggle in which all Muslims must do their best to participate according to their capacities.