 AEGHANews Vol 4. No 10, May 15; 1988. PageS
 Afghan nation celebrates Eid in midst of sorrow and hope
    EIBUL-EITRE which marks the end of the fasting-month of Ramadan is a happy occasion for ail Muslims. But due to the ‘Soviet invasion of Afghanistan it brings to the mind of Afghans the sad memories of the loss of friends and relatives Traditionally, Eid was celebrated with religious performances and social functions. Fhen the nev moon was seen, Ramadan
 visited each others families. These celebrations continued. for three days.
   Eid was a special occasion for the children. Boys and girls wore new clothes and were given presents by the- elders.
   Orphans ’were taken care of in order to forget the loss of his father or mother on such an happy occasion. The traditional family system provided good opportunities for
 ended and the people celebrated Eid. A Muslim is required to take a bath, wear his best clothes, use
 perfume and attend
           AFGHANews
          wishes a happy Eid to all its Muslim readers
 the special prayers held in congregations in the open air.
   Before performing Eid prayers, rich Muslims are required to pay a certain amount of alms to the poor so that everybody should be able! to celebrate Eid.
   Worshippers were addressed by learned scholars and reminded of their religious duties. Government officials read out the Eid message of the head of state at Eid gatherings.
   After saying the-prayers, the social functions starved. Relatives and friends
 them to enjoy Eid. People visited the sick ones and prayed for the the recovery of their health.
   All these things belonged to the pre-war time. The Communist coup of 1978 and the Soviet invasion of 1979 disrupted the religious and traditional life of the people.
    Most families have lost one or more of its members. Some families are divided. The country is not safe and the economic situation is bad. All this has put a negative effect on the celebrations of Eid.
   Eid which was
 supposed to bring people together reminds them of the loss of their relatives and friends. Too many orphans and widows with nobody to take care of them is depressing. Children ask -where their fathers are and young •women miss their loved ones who are either in communist jails, in exile or have teen forced into the puppet army.
   One third of the whole population of
 Afghanistan are living as refugees, Eid cannot be futty enjoyed in the camps away from ones own country.
    The puppet regime which has brought all this
 tragedy to the
 country tries to exploit the occasion. It announces the releasing of some prisoners in honor of Eid. The puppet regime's leaders who are communists and who do not believe m religion participate in the congregation prayers. The purpose is to deceive the people who are muslims.
   People of Afghanistan are looking for the day when their country is free. Eid celebrated in freedom will be an extremely happy moment. All the signs indicate that the day of victory is not far.