AFGHANews Vol7, No 2, January 15,1991, page ©
From the diary of Jehad
Part (4)
People in Panjshir suffer from land mines, housing shortages
MohammadEs'haq
After Mujaddidi left for Peshawar, I started my journey to Panjshir. Crossing the Yellow Pass was a tiring experience. After two days of walking I reached Jeshta village in Paryan where a jeep was waiting to take me to Rukha. Construction of the Paryan road has had a positive effect on the life of the people. Many shops have been opened in Paryan, from which people from Badakhshan and Nooristan buy their needs. The road has been built by the Reconstruction Committee of SC with the help of local people. Construction work to extend the road to the upper part of the valley continued but the work was slow because the committee did not have any bulldozers.
One could see the effect of the road on the architecture of the newly-built houses. Iron gates and large windows were new to the houses in Paryan.
Besides private jeeps, trucks brought goods for the local shopkeepers. Mujahideen also transported the goods they brought from Pakistan on trucks to the lower part of the valley. The Mujahideen wanted to connect Panjshir to Andarab, in the North, with a road through the famous Khawak pass. Part of the work has been done. Nomads (Kochis) who spent Summer in Panjshir helped in the construction.
Panjshir looked greener than last year. All the farmlands were cultivated. The people had started to plant new trees and irrigate what had survived the Soviet occupation. It will take many years before the new trees produce fruit, however. :
The major problem is building houses for the returning refugees. People had started to build their houses but it is very expensive, and there were shortages of manpower and lumber.
Four major mosques were under repair in the valley. The reconstruction costs were paid jointly by the local wealthy people and Jami'at. -
Mines were posing a threat to the life of the people.'When I was in Rukha, a donkey and its driver were hit by a land mine. I also heard other incidents of recent mine explosions in which many people were killed. Another problem is the appalling condition of the Panjshir road.
In the upper part of Panjshir .life had returned to normal. Villages were full of people and shops were full of goods of all types. In the three villages in the upper part of the valley, I saw a lot of cars parked on both, sides of the road. People in these villages are doing well because they work in emerald mines in their area. They are paying a tax of 10 to 20 percent to Jami'at, 50% of which will go in support of the families of martyred and disabled people. Schools and hospitals were doing their work normally. I met with the chief administrator of Panjshir, Saranwal Mahmood Khan. He was appointed to this job in 1985. He has been quite successful in running the affairs of the people. He is a graduate of the Faculty of Law at Kabul
University. He is famous for his humility gested an easier solution and tha and kindness.
I also met with two judges of the Central Zone of SC, Maulawi Abdul Basir and Maulawi Fazel Wahab, who have served in their posts since the beginning of the Jehad.
The best part of my trip was a few days' stay in my beloved village. Only 10 percent of the pre-war population now live there. Most of the houses were still destroyed. The mosque was the first building re-built by the Mujahideen. Here 20 students attended classes which are taught by Maulawi Mohammad Musa, a local religious scholar. Near the village is a school which had classes up to the sixth grade.
Construction of a hall was completed to accomodate the yearly seminars for the teachers of the Central Zone of the SC.
Farmers were busy irrigating their lands, and many cars and trucks laden with people and goods passed the single road through the valley. Mujahideen in Panjshir do not carry weapons if they are not on duty. A boarding school has been opened in Rukha in which more than Fifty students study Islamic subjects. Prices were high but one'could find most essential goods.
To get information about the situation in Shamali, I visited Gulbahar and Jabul Seraj. I was accompanied by Bismillah, the Deputy Head of the Central Zone of the SC.
At the mouth of the Panjshir valley the Mujahideen search all vehicles and identify all the passengers. This is the job of the Intelligence Committee of the SC. Each person leaving the valley must have a pass which is issued by the area commander.
The purpose is to stop infiltration of enemy agents into the valley.
Gulbahar bazaar, at the mouth of the Panjshir valley, was bigger than last year.
From this market people from several districts buy their needs. Business was flourishing. An important factor in this prosperity is its relative peace and security. The Bazaar is about 10 kilometers from Jabul Seraj, through which passes the Salang highway. The Mujahideen have established many schools in Gulbahar. A school for
memorizing the Holy Quran has also <	•	^
opened. I spent the night there. It was calm C |i OWT1 ITT I 1 I except for occasional artillery fire by the re- ^ w V X J. gime against the Mujahideen in Salang. In die morning we took a car to Jabul Seraj, a town at the mouth of the Salang Valley. The headquarters of the fifth corps and second division of the enemy is located there. We had our breakfast in a house not more than 100 meters from enemy security posts.
Electricity was produced in the power plant run by regime. Delicious Afghan cheese and kabob was served in a two story building overlooking the Salang Highway.
The Kabul regime controls Jabul Seraj Cement Factory. The Mujahideen needed cement for reconstruction work in the liberated areas. The Kabul regime wanted to stop this by imposing control over distribution. The chairman of the factory told a person sent by the Mujahideen that he had no control over distribution. He said Prime Minister Khaliqyar was in charge of the distribution! It was interesting to learn of this duty of the so-called non-party prime minister of Najib. This may look strange — to involve a prime minister in cement distribution — but due to the prevailing situation in Afghanistan that is the only job available to him.
The Mujahideen in Jabul Seraj sug-
that was using force to get cement. They believed a few rounds of mortar will force the regime to give what they needed. "Force is the only language that communists know," they said.
After spending one week in Panjshir and Shamali, I started my journey back to Pakistan. In four days I reached the border.
Commander Masood had reached the border one day before. He wanted to talk with commanders about his participation in the council of commanders.
I remained in the border area for five days. The commanders' meeting was held and they agreed on a new strategy. It was obvious that the commanders participating n meeting knew the problems they were facing and were responsive to suggestions to solve them. About 30 major commanders had participated in the meeting. This was the first time that Masood had participated in their council.
Editorial
From page(4)
Muajhideen propaganda, his lack of information about Afghan situation and his trust on Indian diplomats are the main reasons for his misleading reporting from Kabul.
But Dipak is not the only person to blame for poor reporting from Kabul. Those setting in the Bush House know a lot Afghanistan if a reporter is making mistakes why they do not correct it.
The last BBC's in accurate report which originated from Pakistan, not Kabul, was the story of 200 Mujahideen' death in snow storm in Badakhshan province. Only five people were killed in the incident. This report provided propaganda material for the Radio Kabul and Radio Moscow at least for one week.
Herat glass
Herat glass works were displayed in an exhibition of glass works in Washington DC, the first of its kind there in 50 years. Glass works from many other countries were also on display. Films and slides were shown about the art of glass manufacturing in Afghanistan.
Prof. Brail, who made the film, said he sa\v a tiny glass manufacturing shop in Herat in 1968. Ten years later he went with a camera crew to film the process. He said glass was made in this factory,by traditional ways.
He said: " One will be surprised to see beautiful things made by such primitive methods."
He said the world depicts Afghans which as very brave people on the battlefield. It is true that they are very brave people, but in their daily life they are a totally different type of people. They are artists, poets and very kind people, he said.