AFGHANews Vol7, No 6, March 15,1991, page
I was once in a meeting and saw a fellow dressed as a dovish; he was whining and complaining in a most undervish-like manner. He was blaming the rich for being miserly and having no desire to help the poor. "Those who are penniless are always generous; but the owners of great wealth never are!"
I had long enjoyed the favors of the rich and found his comment unacceptable. "My friend,” I said, "The rich are the protectors of the poor and the weak, the refuge of travellers and saints. They carry aheavy burden erf responsibility to relieve others. They would never touch their own food until their guests and dependents have eaten. Their generosity benefits the old, the sick, widdows, orphans, neighbors, etc. The rich can give money to religious endowments or to religious leaders, they can offer hospitality to travellers , they can buy the freedom of prisoners or buy animals for sacrifice. In all this, they gain religious merit; while you, poor wretch, can do no more than offer the obligatory prayers, and often your clothes are not clean enough even to do that!
The rich are better in terms of generosity and piety, since their wealth has been purified by paying the Zakat, and their prayers are said with clean clothes and a heart free of care. Whereas the poor cannot be strong on an empty stomach or generous with empty hands. Whoever does not know what he will eat in the morning spends the night restlessly tossing to and fro. The ant gamers in summer to rest in winter. How can. you compare the man who calmly says the night prayer after a good dinner with the beggar who is still scavenging for scraps after dark? The wealthy can afford to think of God, the poor just worry about their own poverty. Have you not heard the tradition of the Prophet - Poverty is a disgrace in this world land the next!"
The false dervish replied: "And have you not heard the saying of the Prophet - Proud to be Poor!
I told him to be quiet "Our Lord is referring to spiritual poverty as a quality of those who are content with what they have and accept their fate. Not
those with big turbans who live off public charity! You boom like a drum but you are quite empty inside! You are too worried about your stomach to go and fight! If you are a real man, stop scrounging off others and stop fingering that thousand-bead rosary of yours!
Moreover, " I added, ” Ignorance and poverty always lead to heresy. Calm of mind depends on knowingthat your food will come to you regularly without fail. In the desert, a thirsty man does not see the world as it is, but is obsessed by visions of water."
When at last I . finished speaking, the false dervish lost his temper and attacked me with his sharp tongue and bombarded me with insults. "You've really scraped the barrel of your oily rhetoric in praise of the rich! One would think they were the universal antidote to suffering or even the elixir of life! They are puffed up with pride, infatuated with themselves, obsessed with money and posessions, mere snobs and capitalists! They drawl their meaningless speech and look down their haughty noses! They accuse scholars of being beggars and despise the poor for being helpless. They think themselves so high and . mighty because of their money and supposed status that they always take the best seats and would'nt dream of noticing anyone below them!" (TO BE CONTINUED)
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
, JyjuA	Juu»l <U Lid
The world lives on hope.
Meaning: Don't get discouraged because we must have hope to live and work aright
*t tf***
o**
Let Christians practice their own religion, and let Jews practice theirs.
Meaning: People should have freedom of religion.
By enquiring one can even reach India.
Meaning: Seek, and you shall find.
«dJjjJ yjJ C
To the heavy (respectable) you are respectable and to the light (worthless) you are worthless.
Meaning: Take the tone of the company you are in.
The believers single brotherh peace and reconciliatio
fl	a	i	a	s	j»Sg	if
between your two (co
ing) br tha
rs; and fea y receive