AFGHANews Vol 7, No 13, July 1,1991. page

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Wisdom ■
t
lilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!l
Good deeds bring eternal happiness
A boxer had fallen on hard days: neither at noon nor at night could he find anything to eat. As he could not make a living as a boxer, hunger drove him to work as a laborer carrying loads of earth on his back. His body aching and his heart bleeding, he cursed the injustice of this world and looked sourly at the caprices of fate. The happy lives of others filled him with bitter envy. He cried out indignantly: "Has any man ever lived a life more bitter than mine? While others scoff honey and roast chicken and leg of lamb, I don't have even a lettuce leaf to put on my bread! Is it fair, I ask, for the cat to stalk proudly swathed in furs while I stand naked? How about giving me my heart's desire? While I dig this earth, let me find a buried treasure, let me shake off this dust of misfortune, let me live it up, if only for a few days!"
One day, while he was digging the ground, he found a decaying skull
Regi me

From page (1)
was a plot to deceive people. Najib has lost sympathy among the people because of the attack on Zindajan, the reporter said. The Kabul troops who claimed to. control part of Zindajan refused to take the reporter to see the situation there.
Heratis told the BBC man that regime militiamen were involved in smuggling drugs and weapons. The large number of ill-disciplined militia groups is a source of worry for people of Herat A militia commander told the BBC -that the people of Herat wanted the city be taken by the Mujahideen.
The -Kabul regime committed an unprecedented crime by deliberately cutting water supply to Zindajan and Ghoryan, destroying crops and creating shortages of drinking water for people and animals. Regime jets bombed the canals.
which had lost its lips and all its teeth and yet spoke to him clearly: "Brother! Bear with this hardship! Look at me now, rotting in the ground: can you guess whether my mouth tasted sweets or the salt tears of grief? Fortune's wheel turns, time passes: do not grieve! It will be the same when we are gone."
As soon as this thought came to him, his mind was cleared of all grief and worry. "O my blind and greedy ego!" he scolded, "stop driving yourself to distraction! Bear with these trials! We are all God's mortal servants: whether in this life we carry burdens on our heads or crowns that scrape the skies, the moment of death will change all and in a twinkling of an eye, we will throw down all our burdens.
Neither sorrow lasts, nor joy. The only lasting rewards are those of good deeds and a good name. Generosity is everlasting, though thrones and honors vanish. You who are blessed with good fortune, give generously! Do not be taken in by the false glory of power and wealth - others have had it before you came, others will have it after you are gone. If you are truly fortunate, you will look to the hereafter, as this world surely passes. If you want to keep your kingdom, you must attend to matters of religion. Give charity, be generous like Sa'di, who, though penniless, yet scatters pearls of wisdom.
Afghan pioneers build mosque "Down Under"
In recent months, Afghan community in Melbourne have succeeded in forming a broad based "Committee for Mosque Construction".
The committee, comprised prominent figures of the community is set up to first pave the way for fund-raising and establishment of a solid financial foundation. The committee launched its first fund-raising appeal during the last holy month of Ramadhan.This will be the first mosque built by the new generation of the Afghan community in Australia.
Afghans have long-standing links with Australia. In the second half of the 19th century camel drivers brought their camels from Afghanistan and India, and played a prominent role in the exploration of the Australian continent. The camel drivers were among Australia's pioneers.
One of the best-known Afghan emigrants to Australia was Mohammad Alam, who was bom in Kandahar but migrated to Australia around 1900. He became famous in Adelaide as a herbalist and healer, and married an Australian. He distributed Islamic literature at his own expanse. When he died in 1964, he left a will in which his considerable fortune was bequeathed to charity.
To meet the spiritual needs of the early Muslim migrants, mosques were built in a number of Australian towns and cities. The oldest mosque in Australia, the Adelaide Mosque, was completed in 1890. The religious life of the camel drivers was organized around the Perth Mosque, the foundation stone of which was set in 1905. The Afghan king, Habibullah, was appointed the first trustee of the mosque.
IlIMliMl
ilil


wi
§p
mm
■ Prophet (peace be upon|H
111
■and he was exaggerating in us|
Ihim) said to back of the mail* ri

cut) the
