AFGHANews Vol7, No 20, October 15,1991, page ©
/----------
Wisdom of i
the sages
Job takes place of friend
A man once had a friend who was employed in an important job in the Ministry. For a long time he could not get to see him. Someone commented: "It is a long time since you last saw so and so!”
The man answered: "I have no intention of seeing him."
One of the important bureaucrat's minions was present and asked: "What has he done to you that you no longer
want to see him?”
"He has done nothing wrong to me. But you know, the only time you can get to see-important friends in the Ministry is when they've been thrown out of their job! While the rush of business never lets up, they never have time for their neglected friends. The day they are dismissed and fall into misfortune, that's when they come to bellyache to their long-suffering friends."
New party formed in Kabul
About 40 people, including some former members of PDPA , have framed a new political party called the Movement for Democracy and Freedom in Afghanistan.
They say the purpose of the formation this party is to work for restoration of peace in Afghanistan.
Ghulam Sakhi Ghairat, the editor of the newspaper "Azadi” which was recently banned by the Najib regime, is one of the founding members of the new party. He belonged to Khalq faction of the ruling party and sympathizes with Shah Nawaz Tanai.
Some officials of Pashtoo Tolana, a government organization that promotes Fashtop language, have also joined the new party.
The party leaders said they wanted to put an end to the war in Afghanistan and restore its freedom, unity and pride. They also vowed to struggle for
s	>
WAD acquires lighter planes
After the regime defeat in Takhar and Badakhshan , control of some units of the regime army and air force were handed over to WAD. They included three squadrons of the regime air force stationed in Mazar. They have the job to check any advance of the Mujahideen in the North. These jets were involved in the recent bombardments in various areas of the North causing heavy casualties among the civilian population in Taliqan and other places.
social justice. The Kabul regime has allowed formation of some political parties but they do not have the freedom to oppose it on major issues.
Just three weeks after its formation, the party's five founding members resigned over the controversial role of Zahir Shah in the future politics of Afghanistan. Those who abandoned the organization included Wasif Bakhtari, He accused other members of using the organization to promote Zahir Shah. It seems the split is on ethnic lines and those defected belong to non-pushtoon areas.
It is interesting that the former king is not only a source of controversy among the Mujahideen party, but also among the groups created in Kabul.
Many outsiders think that the former king can play role in bringing peace to Afghanistan. The former monarch is celebrating his 75 th birthday in Rome, Italy, today (October 15).
otBinmmg
Mohammad Arif, the younger brother of Commander of Jegdalek, was killed in Peshawar on September 30. He was stabbed to death by one of his brother-in-laws when wanted to mediate in a family dispute.
Arif, 35, worked as the representative of Jegdalek front of Jami'at in Peshawar.
Commander Anwar is the head of the front. Arif was a hard-woiking man who served the Mujahideen and refugees belonging to his front He was very helpful to the Political Committee of Jami'at in organizing trips for foreign journalists to visit the fighting fronts. He contributed a great deal in dissemination of the news of Jehad in the international level. Arif was a kind and hospitable person treating the people very well. His sudden death stunned many people. Thousands of people attended his funeral. As his elder brother Anwar Khan, he was a wrestler. He has left behind , two minor children and a widow.
Arif was bom in Kabul. He studied Sayyed Jamaluddin primary and •Habibia high schools. After the communist coup of 1978, he returned to his hometown, Jegdalek, and later, he migrated to Pakistan.
Praising Arifs contributions to Jehad, Prof. Rabbani called his death a loss. He also asked his family to deal with the murderer according to Islamic Sharia and emphasized that no innocent person should be harmed. The kill cr has gone underground. Commander Anwar is an active member of the Council of Commanders.
MiBlimM
Ithem and bringing the killed and!
	
I tjbie wounded!

Uyo *