-AFGHANews Vol 5, No 6, March 15,1989, page 8
From the Diary of Jehad
By: Mansoor
machinery of the Soviet collective farms. Fighting was responsible for the
A short trip to Ghaziabad
we came across few destroyed tanks.
Mujahideen were talking about the interim government and military action against Jalalabad in die custom house of Tooikham on the Pak-Afghan border. We reached there after one hour’s drive from Peshawar.
* Some months ago, the communist forces were forced to abandon the border posts and garrisons along die Jalalabad-Toatkham road.
In Tooikham different buildings were occupied by different parties. As usual, a large number of people were crossing the border in both directions.
We were offered green tea by die Mujahideen while waiting for a pick-up car to take us to Ghazi Abad farm near Jalalabad.
In the custom house Umar Khan, a Mujahid from Khalis group was commenting about the government of Mujahideen. He was of the view that the leaders should liberate the country fust and then argue about presidency and prime ministership. He also was critical of the leaders for their statements about Jalalabad conquest in the near future.
. He believed that communists had fortified the city and predicted a difficult war.
We asked other Mujahideen about the military operation against Jalalabad. They shared Umar Khan's views.
The Tooridiam-Jalalabad road was in bad condition. Potholes caused by chained vehicles and lack of maintenance in the past nine years have made the trip on the road slow and uncomfortable.
There were many garrisons between Toorkham and Jalalabad which were abandoned and most of the buildings either were burned or partially damaged.
Aside from the government insta-lations, the villages along the road were not affected by the war.
Kheyalnoor, the Jami'at commander in. Mohmand Dara, told us that the area was in the full control of the regime in the past nine years. Most of the villagers were militiamen. The area was liberated after Soviet troops left Jalalabad and Kunar some months ago.
On our way to Ghanzi Abad farm
showing that there were little military activity in the area in the past
The weather was nice and the scenery beautiful. It was like a dream to travel by car on the metal road for miles without being worried about enemy ambush or air raid.
Along the road we crossed dozens of gates installed by the Mujahideen from different parlies.
In Ghazi Abad farm different parties have set up their posts. Ghazi Abad is a mechanized farm build by the technical assistance of the Soviet Union.
The main products of the farm woe citrus fruits and olives which were mainly exported to the Soviet Union.
In the central part of the form there were several modem buildings.
The Farm had a huge workshop but most of the machinery was broken. A large number of the tractors, trucks were rusty. It seemed that Soviets had sold to the Afghan government the old
A Mujahideen delegation headed by the President of the interim government, Sibghatullah Mujaddidi, met with PLO chairman, Yaser Arafat, in Rawilpindi on March 8.
The meeting took place when the Mujahideen delegation was invited to a luncheon hosted by Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto in honor of the PLO chairman.
While the Mujahideen have always supported the cause of Palestine. PLO leadership failed to condemn Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The PLO also have built close relations with the communist regime in Kabul.
Yaser Arafat once was a popular figure among ordinary Afghans. His failure to take a clear stand in support of Afghan Mujahideen created doubt about him in the mind of Afghans.
This meeting could prove useful if Mr. Arafat makes use of his influence among radical Arab States not to oppose acceptance of the interim govem-
fiesh damage.
When the Mujahideen were asked -about the damages they regretted it but lack of planning and untrained men should be blamed for these types of things.
The orchards were in good condition. But before the hot season comes arrangement for the irrigation of the town should be made, otherwise, the trees will dry out
In Jami'at headquarters in the form, a group of Mujahideen had sat in a circle and were reading Holy Quran. One day before, two rockets fired by the communist forces in Jalalabad which landed close to the building killed one Mujahid and injured a few others.The Mujahideen woe praying far the departed soul.
After lunch, we started our return journey. We offered noon prayers in the Girdi Ghous mosque, a famous shrine half way between the form and border.
Old buses in orange color were taking the people back and forth on the hjgfrway. Every thing seemed so peaceful and normal. Some children had volunteered to improve the condition of the road by filling the potholes with dirt Drivers gave than some money for the good job they were doing.
At 3:00 Pm we were back at the border and had ended our one-day comfortable tour of Afghanistan.
ment of the Mujahideen as a member of the Organization of Islamic Conference.
Afghanistan seat in OIC has remained vacant since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979.
Observers of the Afghan situation also think that Mr. Arafat can play a mediatory role between the Mujahideen and the Soviets when the need for such talks is felt by both sides.
This meeting became possible through the good offices of Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto.
Avalanch kills French nurse
A 26 year old French male nurse, on a mission inside Afghanistan for a humanitarian agency, Medicins du Monde, was killed by an avalanche on February 26, according to Afghan Media Resource Center (AMRC).
Mujahideen leader meets PLO chairman