AFGHANews Vol8, No 10 & 11, June 1,1992, page ©
The victors return after years of exile
The Airplane was preparing to land. Passengers were trying to get a glimpse outside. As the plane touch the ground, they shouted Allah-u-Akber -God is great!
The passengers began to say prayers as soon as they got out of the plane. They wanted to thank Allah who had enabled them to return victoriously to free Afghanistan. Most of the 60 passengers in the plane were young Afghans who were returning to Kabul after the fall of the communist regime and the establishment of an Islamic government. Some Arabs and Western journalists were also in the AN-32 military plane which flew them from Peshawar to Kabul on May 1.
The Mujahideen returning home weie very excited. Most of them had left the country at least ten years ago. Since the events leading to the fall of the regime had happened so quickly, they wondered whether their return was a reality or a sweet dream.
For me, it was the happiest moment of my life. I had left Kabul 17 years ago and had always prayed for a victorious return.
The thing which struck me the most was the number of helicopters and transport planes parked in the airport Such a large number of planes for such a poor country was an extraordinary thing. An air force officer told us that the Soviets left behind 1,000 helicopters, jets and transport planes when they withdrew their troops from Afghanistan in 1989.
As the evening approached, the sky of Kabul was lit up by tracer bullets fired from all sorts of weapons as the Mujahideen celebrated their long-awaited victory. But this type of celebration not only wasted a lot of money but also posed serious threat to the people of Kabul. The repeated government appeals on radio and TV to stop firing in the air were ignored.
We moved towards the city in convoy of cars. After each few hundred meters, there was a security post that asked for identification papers. Since die government offices, TV and radio stations are located along this road, the tight security measures could be justified. One day before our arrival, the forces loyal to Hikmatyar who had been shelling the area were driven off a hilltop overlooking the airport.
We spent the night in the Ariana Hotel near the Presidential Palace. It had no electricity and water, but our hosts did everything they could to make our stay comfortable.
After sunrise, I went out on the hotel lawn to have a view of the capital Kabul was more beautiful than I had pictured it in
Mohammad Es'haq PART ONE

my memory. 1 had spent the best-eight years of my life in Kabul as a student at die Afghan Institute of Technology and Faculty of Engineering.
Life was returning to normal in the city and people walked to work., but there were few vehicles on the road because of fuel shortages.
While I enjoyed watching Kabul, Abdullah Anas, an Arab friend and a supporter of Jehad, came out onto the lawn of die hotel. He seemed extremely happy about the victory of die Mujahideen.
He is a leading member of the Peshawar-based Services Office, founded by late Abdullah Ezam, which extended support to die Mujahideen and needy Afghans during die years of Jehad. Abdullah Ezam, a strong supporter of Jehad, was martyred along with the two of his sons in a bomb explosion in Peshawar. EzamV martyrdom deprived young Arabs involved in Afghan Jehad from a wise leader.
The Services Office publishes a weekly paper in Arabic, called Sadal Jehad, in Peshawar. In its last issue of April, it had published the exaggerated claims of Hezb Island about that party's role in liberation of Kabul. When asked about the contests of the paper, Abdullah Anas, admitted that the paper had printed the claims of Hezb without enough investigation due to shortage of time.
The incident shows the tremendous difficulties that Jehad has been facing in relation to its outside supporters, especially Arab organizations. Most of Arabs have always taken side with one Mujahideen group or the other.
The majority of young Arabs involved in Jehad have supported Hikmatyar s policies towards the new Islamic government in Kabul. Similarly, Januutt Islami of Pakistan, under the leadership of Qazi Hussain Ahmad, has been taking rides with Hikmatyar against the Islamic government in Kabul. Not only these groups have been involved in propaganda against die Islamic government, but Arab and Jamaat Islami of Pakistan's volunteers also have been taking part in fighting against the forces of Islamic government in KabuL
The former army chief of Pakistan, General Mirza Aslam Beg, took a pro-Hikmatyar stand. He accused forces of foe Islamic Army of being responsible for the bloodshed after foe fall of Najib’s regime, and criticized Commander Masood for leaving Panjsher to capture Charikar and Bagram.
Views expressed by some Arabs, Qazi
Husain Ahmad and some retired army offi cersof Pakistan created many doubts in foe minds of Muslims all over the world about the Islamic nature of the government in Kabul. They involved themselves in spreading negative propaganda to cover up their past mistakes of promoting Hezb as foe strongest Mujahideen party. They were dis appointed by foe poor performance of Hezb in the events that led to foe fall of the communist regime in KabuL
Foreign involvement in foe internal politics of the Mujahideen has not remained limited only to extending financial assis tance to their favorite parties. Jamilur Rahman, the leader of a religious party in Kunar, was killed by an Arab at a time when his forces were involved in fierce dashes with Hezb Islamic over control of Kunar. Some Mujahideen are afraid of similar incidents involving outsiders.
To meet Ahmad Shah Masood, foe Defense Minister of foe Islamic Government of Afghanistan, I went to foe Ministry of WAD, the secret police of foe former regime. Yaqoubi, foe head of WAD, killed himself in this building when he heard about Najib's abortive attempt to flee KabuL
A huge gout of dried blood stains foe gold carpet in front of his desk, where he died. Clearly someone had made the effort to scrub it out, but too late to do much good.
A smaller, traditional carpet has been thrown over the blotch in foe interest of good taste. But it remains as a reminder to the new leaders that power is nobody's forever. Power is to be used in the service of Islam and people of the country.
As usual Masood was friendly. His enormous power has not affected his good manners. He does not like to be called minister by his friends and has ven ordered TV and Radio to stop calling him "General." This tide was given to him by Prof. Mujaddidi when he was the head of foe Islamic Interim Government based Peshawar.
I attended the first press conference of Masood in the foreign ministry building. I also attended some interviews he gave to journalists and the meetings he held with Jami'at delegations. Following is the summary of his views about the events before and after foe fall of Najib's regime:
The Supervisory Council played foe key role in liberation of Kabul. The events which led to foe collapse of the communist regime started with foe fall of Khost in Paktia and Khwaja Ghar and major parts of Badakhshan in the north.
Differences between regime forces, in foe North, became acute at foe start of the current year. Jami'at liberated all districts of Balkh province and half of the city of Mazar. The liberation of Salang, Charikar