AFGHANews Vol 6, No 13, July 1,1990, page ®
Mujahideen final winners of war in Afghanistan
Afghanistan is a wonderland. One of its wonders is that most predictions about it prove false.
In the last ten years two important predictions about Afghanistan were wrong; the first prediction being the victory of the Soviet Union over the Mujahideen.
When the Soviet army invaded Afghanistan in December, 1979, most predicted a Soviet victory within a short period of time. Subsequent events proved them wrong. The Soviets left Afghanistan without a victory, and the resistance emerged stronger than ever.
The second prediction - die fall of the Kabul regime immediately after the Soviet troops withdrawal - proved to be wishful thinking. After 16 months the Najibullah regime still retains power in Kabul.
Now that the second prediction has been negated, questions arise concerning future developments in Afghanistan. They arc: How long the war will continue? Who will win? For an answer, we must discuss both the strong and weak points of the Kabul regime and the Mujahideen.
The Najib regime passed muster when it survived the year after the Soviet withdrawal. This gave the regime self-confidence, making the Soviet Union more determined than ever in it's unqualified support In addition to it's survival, the Kabul regime has other advantages, such as:
•a regular army with many years of experience
•control in the capital of the country
•support from a reliable friend, the Soviet Union.
The Kabul armed forces are equipped with the most sophisticated weapons. It has a command structure withll years experience. Although the regime army is not in position to launch major offensive operations, because of low morale and shortages in manpower, it can fight a defensive war, the present strategy of the regime.
The government's structure and control of the capital works in favor of the regime. Its UN membership and diplomatic relations with some countries puts the regime in a better position than the Mujahideen.
Soviet support for the regime is vital for its survival. Its commitment has astounded the world, sending 400
million dollar in military aid, and supplying Kabul with food and fuel, despite tremendous economic problems at home.
The regime suffers from many weak points some of which are:
•	Partial control over territory
•Shortage of manpower
•Dependence on outside support
•Internal differences
•	Image problem
More than 80 percent of the land and tfye majority of the Afghan population live outside the control of the Kabul regime.
The Regime. controls Kabul and the center of some provinces. The territory controlled by the regime are small Islands surrounded by a sea of resistance-controlled areas. Partial control over these territories prevent the regime from launching major offensive attacks.
Another problem the regime faces is a shortages of combat personnel for major offensives. Najibulah cannot re-
By: Mohammad Es'haq
emit enough men. In order to fill the gap, the regime is offering high salaries for those who join militia forces. Thus, the regime relies increasingly on these mercenary groups, which are even used to defend Kabul itself.
Internal differences within the ruling party is a major weakness of the regime. These differences have continued despite the regime’s continuity, and repeated efforts by the Soviets to bring unity among different communist factions have failed. These differences have led to massive infighting. General Tanai's coup was the result of the internal strife between the Khalq and Parcham faction of the ruling party.
Bad image is a major disadvantage of the Kabul regime. A majority of Afghans hold it responsible for the tragedy in the country, and its image continues as the puppet of Soviet imperialism. The ruling party is still considered a communist organ, and its leaders perceived as non-Muslims. Afghans still call the armed struggle against the Kabul regime Jehad, the holy war.
The Kabul regime is fully aware of these weakness. It has tried to change peoples views through introducing superficial change, but after a decade of war, it will be difficult for us to believe in their sincerity.
The regime suffers from a total dependence on the Soviets for military and economic assistance. Without
Soviet military assistance the regime war machine would grind to a halt. At the moment the Soviet Union is training regime officers, is providing military hardware, and its 500 advisors devise military strategy.
The Kabul regime tries, with the help of the Soviet Union, to decrease the economic burden of the war through assistance from the United Nations reconstruction funds.
Operation Salaam benefits the Kabul regime greatly. UN goods coming through the Soviet Union reach only regime militias. The other side in the conflict have not benefited to such an extent.
The Mujahideen gained a reputation for bravery against Soviet forces, but their failure to oust the Kabul regime after the Soviet withdrawal raises questions about their future role in running Afghanistan.
The strong points of the Mujahideen are:
. *A vast popular support •control of most land and a majority of the population
• limited economic self-sufficiency • considerable experience in irregular warfare
• one unifying ideal - the fall of the Kabul regime.
It is difficult to differentiate between the ordinary Afghan people and the Mujahideen, as the people and the Mujahideen are two faces of the same coin. A prominent French expert on Liberation Movements once visited Afghanistan, and at the end of his stay he remarked upon the populism of the Mujahideen, which he had not seen in any other part of the world.
The Soviets tried to create a gap between the ordinary people and the Mujahideen but their strategy failed Indiscriminate bombardments of the liberated areas to force the depopulation of major parts of the country, made the resistance more popular.
After the Soviet troops withdraw al, the Mujahideen maintained popular support, but political and military achievements are necessary to maintain future support.
One advantage the Mujahideen have over the regime is control of 80 percent of the country's territory, including locations of strategic and economic significance. Transportation routes used by the resistance to friendly neighboring countries are safer than in the past and transportation by vehicles is common.
This gives die Mujahideen more