                             RFuKflrt KEMS UOL.!V> HO. 1,       1/1/1968,  PAGE  g
     The incident of a shoot-out among the puppet forces was a great cause of embarrassment for Najib who -was directing the whole show.
     Communist agents chosen by the puppet party were brought into the conference hail, Soma were wearing Western suits and some traditional clothes to show that they belong to different parts of Afghanistan and different walks of life.
     As it was expected, they passed what the puppets civil a "constitution” and appointed Najib the president and supported all that was presented to them including motions on the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and the continued occupation of the country
     In a press conference which was held later, Najib answered the questions of journalists but tbs atmosphere of the conference seemed very cool Najib did not impress the journalists because he was repeating his previous statements.
     About the shoot-out Incident, he blamed one of his militia commanders for being a drug and ale hoi-addict. About the defection of his brother, he said that SediquHah had cut his relationship with Najib's family 15 years agoU).
     The show failed to earn enough publicity What Najib gained from the show was the title of the presidency of the Republic of Afghanistan- A thing which was not worth the embarrassment he suffered from the show.
                                                    AFGHAN WINTER
                                                                                                                               I
     Winters have always been difficult for Afghan people but the winters after the Soviet invasion, have been more difficult.
     Afghanistan is a cold country with a lot of snowfall during the winter The temperature drops up to 10 degrees centigrade below zero in most parts of the country.
     Before the war winter was the time when the farmers relaxed. Mosques were full of people and mosque schools were full of y wag giris and boys, The people were poor and i they suffered from lack of warm clothing and proper shoes, but in general the people enjoyed winter.
     After cite Soviet invasion the pattern of life changed, villages were destroyed and families were divided, The enemy s successive offensives and air raids have taken away peace of mind and comfort of body
     Food is always a problem during the winter People in the liberated areas suffer very much because the mountainous routes either would become very difficult for transportation or totally blocked. This means little food would be available and consequently the prices will go higher
     Winter means the total absence of vegetables and fruits and the people will depend on bread, rice and potatoes. The absence of fruit and vegetable leads to a variety of diseases.
     Lack of warm clothes and proper foot-wear is an acute problem in today's Afghanistan. Local production of warm clothes has ceased because of the war and second hand garments which came to the market from the West are not available in sufficient quantities If anything is available, the prices are so high that the people cannot buy them
     As a result of poor diet and insufficient warm clothes and poor heaiic g systems in the houses, people suffer from a lot of diseases.
j   If the enemy launches an offensive or bomb the areas tha situation further
i   deteriorates. Mujahideen have to fight and women and children must leave the villages
t____________________________