AFGHANews Vol 8, No 24, December 15, 1992, page Q
Tajik refugees should be helped
.While Afghanistan faces its own economic problems, the influx of around 100,000 Tajik refugees will pose extra problems for our war-tom country
Afghanistan is facing tremendous problems of an economic, political and security nature. These problems were created by the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and the oppressive rule of communists.
These difficulties will severely limit the effective assistance Afghanistan can provide to Tajik refugees.
The Tajiks, however, enjoy the sympathy of the people of Afghanistan. They have been forced out of their country by people like those who forced five million Afghans to flee their homes and take refuge in neighboring countries.
Like Afghans, Tajiks arc struggling to establish a just Islamic and democratic government in their country after long years of tyranny. Such people deserve support and sympathy of all peace-loving people of the world, especially Muslims.
While the government of Afghanistan will abtde by international laws and abstain from interference in the internal affairs of other countries, it should help publicize the plight of the Tajiks to the world community. This will, pave the way for the supply of international humanitarian assistance to the refugees and raise die awareness of die world community about the events in Tajikistan. Such an awareness is necessary' to pressure the authorities in Doshanbc to put an end to the persecution of the opponents of communist rule.
The world community should act quickly in providing humanitarian assis-iar.ee to the refugees in the north of Afghanistan. The government of Afghanistan should help the UN and other relief organizations to bring aid tovjhft refugees. The world community also should exert pressure on the government of Tajikistan to stop forcing its own people out of the country. The government of Tajikistan might try to hide the violence unleashed by communists against supporters of democracy as a "campaign against Islamic fundamentalism." The world should not bo misled by these slogans. What is taking place across the Amu river is the massacre of ordinary people by communists. Now that communism has been defeated world-wide, the world community should not tolerate persecution of die people of Tajikistan by a gang of hard-line communist survivors.
Disinformation campaign against Islamic government
The mass media of neighboring and western countries broadcast a latsc story on December 9 that General Dostufti’s warplanes had bombed die presidential palace and defense ministry during an attempted coup. Thev also reported that Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood was missing, possibly a captive of the coup-makers, and that rebel forces were bcsciging President Rabbani in his office.
While Radio Iran and Radio Moscow heard the disinformation from opponents of the Islamic government affiliated with Russia and Iran. UN officials in Islamabad fed the talc to the Western media.
Hezb Wahdai - which had signed a ceasefire agreement with the government the day before - sent word of die "successful coup" to Teheran, and the staie-controllcd radio of Iran published as they w ould have any other political communique from that party. Communist followers of Gen. Dostum gave the false news to Radio Moscow-.
UN employees in Kabul, who arc Afghan nationals, passed the news of the Uvnbing of the presidential palace to the UN office in Islamabad on their satellite phone. From there it was passed to all Western news agencies. The Western news agencies used die false news without checking it with dieir own correspondents based m Kabul.
To page (8)
Afghanistan joins ECO
The Islamic Government of Afghanistan signed the membership documents • of the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO) on November 28. The document was signed in a ceremony in Islamabad by Sayyed Salman Gailani, the foreign minister of Afghantsian.
The five newly independent Muslim republics of Central Asia and Azerbaijan also became members of ECO.
ECO was formed in 1985 by Turkey, Iran, and Pakistan. The purpose of formation of this regional organization is to promote cultural and economic cooperation between the member states.
Improving communication- anil transportation facilities between the member states is on the top of the agenda of the ECO.
Afghanistan had asked for membership in ECO but die proposal was turned down because Pakistan and Irar were opposed to its entry while the communist regime was still on power.
ECO includes 300 million people who have close historical, religious and cultural links with one another
Before signing of on membership by the new states, the three founding members amended the charter- of the ECO to allow admission of new members. ECO now has 10 members.
Refugees return home from Iran
Afghan refugees in Iran officially started to return home on December I from Doqarviun border point in Taybad Khorasan Province, in the presence oi representatives of Afghanistan, Irar and the United Nations high Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) IRNA reported.
Over two million Afghan refugee; sought asylum in Iran after the 197i communist coup. Some 300,000 o these refugees have already returnee home since the establishment of the in tcrim Islamic Government in Kabu last April.
lean Marie Fakhoun, UNHCF deputy director of the regional burcai for southwest Asia. and Ahmai Husscini, deputy director for forcigi citizens' affairs at Iran's Interio Ministry, discussed the return of thi Afghan refugees.