Rockets kill 100 people in Kabul
Over one hundred people were killed and at least 300 were injured when Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) fired rqckets into the city of Kabul on ‘July 4. The attack took place two days before Abdul Saboor Farid arrived in the capital to began work as the First prime minister of the Islamic Government of Afghanistan.
The tragic rocket attack started at noon and lasted for six hours. The rockets hit a bus station and some residential areas in poorer parts of the city, in addition to some military targets. One rocket landed in the garden of the presidential palace, killing a Mujahid from Logar Province.
The forces loyal to the government responded to the attack. Hezb claimed that Division No. 53 started Firing on its bases. South of Kabul, killing eleven people in the Bini Hisar area.
Government authorities strongly condemned the attack and held Hezb Islami responsible for the killing of innocent people.
Prof. Rabbani, head of the Islamic State, visited the 400-bed hospital to enquire about the condition of those wounded in the attack. He announced giving Afs.100,000 to the families of those killed and 50,000 to the wounded.
The attack disrupted a session of Leadership Council in which Eng. Hikmatyar was expected to attend, and delayed the arrival of Abdul Saboor Farid for one day.
The press officers of Hezb blamed the government forces for the start nf the attack to prevent Farid from assuming office. But the Islamic government has evidence that Hezb was preparing for a heavy weapon attack.
Even if one accepts as valid 4he accusation of Hezb that govemment forces started the attack, it cannot justify bombarding residential areas several kilometers away from the front line.
Hezb joins in government
Abdul Saboor Farid, the command- raising controversial issues.
er of Hezb Islami in Kapisa, assumed office as the Prime Minister of the Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan on July 6.
He reached the capital in a large convoy of trucks and cars carrying -about 3,000 of his armed supporters.
He was welcomed outside the city by three cabinet ministers and a large number of Hezb supporters,
Farid’s arrival gave hope to the people in Kabul that rocket attacks by Hezb on the city would end. Two days before his arrival, Hezb rockets fired into market -and residential areas killed 100 people and wounded 300 more.
The leaders had agreed to give the prime minister's post to a representative of Hezb. Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, the Hezb Islami leader, refused to enter the political process, and resorted to violence to topple the Islamic government.
Hezb demanded withdrawal of forces of the 53rd Division, headed by General Dostum, and the 80th Divsion of Sayyed Mansoor Nadiri, and that the army be purged of former regime officers as a precondition for participating in the government. After two months, Hezb decided to join the government without these conditions unmet
About 300 of Farid's armed men were assigned to protect the Prime Minister's compound. The rest of his 3000 armed men are lodged in a mili-Tary camp outside the city.
Farid will chose some new ministers for his cabinet with the consultation of the Leadership Council. Some key ministerial posts have been allocated to different parties by the Peshawar agreement. Prof. Mujaddidi had also appointed some caretaker ministers to run the government.
Prime Minister Farid addressed the nation on TV and radio to inform them of his plans. He emphasized unity among Mujahideen forces, and avoided
Farid was bom 42 years ago in the village of Chashma-i-Allah Dad in Kohistan District, Kapisa Province. His father Abdul Shokoor was a teacher, from an important Tajik family.
Farid studied primary school in Kohistan, secondary school ~ in Jabulseraj and Teacher Training School in Kabul. He was a teacher in Rukha High School, Panjshir, when the com munist coup of 1978 took place.
Since he was a known member of the Islamic Movement, he left his job and migrated to Iran. He served as a Hezb representative in an Iranian city before returning to Pakistan in 1979. He was sent to Kapisa where he the laid the foundation of an armed struggle in Kohistan. In 1983, he was wounded in fighting against the Soviets and was evacuated and treated in Pakistan. In 1987, he was appointed the chief administrator (Amir) ofHezb in Kapisa and Parwan provinces.
Farid has established schools and hospitals in his home base, Kohistan He got involved in infighting with other Mujahideen groups, especially Jami’at, at the start of Jehad, but later tried to avoid such clashes. He got con trol of Gulbahar Textile Mills as a result of a secret deal with the Kabul re gime in 1987, but failed to keep the factory running.
Farid has a good reputation among the people. He has emerged as a good politician, but failed to mature .into a capable military commander.
The first issue raised by Farid's arrival was the limits of the power of the President and the Prime Minister . There was no agreement between the parties on this issue. In order to address this, the Leadership Council formed a committee comprising all Mujahideen parties to draft a transitional constitution, which is to be presented to the Council soon.