*»	^uiuvi^uting in UJW
lion prayers is the negative side of this event.
The new Mujahideen leaders ' wear ordinary dress. This has eliminated a barrier which separated the ordinary Afghans from ranking government officials. It is indeed a positive development.	-
When the Mujahideen took power in Kabul there was acute shortage of water, electricity, food and fuel. The prices of essential commodities were very high. But within a few days of the establishment of the Islamic government, the situation began to improve. Supply of water and electricity were restored. Prices of food and fuel were reduced. As the roads opened, food became abundant in the market. The people became optimistic about their future.
Islamization of Radio and TV programs was a priority of the new government. The Ministry of Information and Culture was given to Jami’ai. Time given for entertainment and music was reduced and more time was given for religious programs. Songs by women were stopped. The women officials of the government were asked to wear Islamic dress. For those who had watched the TV programs of the communist regime the changes introduced are quite drastic but there are some Mujahideen parties who think that the changes are not enough.
Three state-owned dailies have begun to be published. Jami'at Islami began to publish two papers from Kabul, "Mujahid" and "AFGHANcws". This is the first step towards having a free press in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.
Foreign assistance is necessary to keep the government machine riinning. Pakistan was the first country to provide a generous assistance of 50,000 tonnes of wheat and $10 million for
problems. Commander Masood wanted the transfer of power to take place peacefully; armed Mujahideen from outside should not have been allowed to enter Kabul.
But the attack by Hczb resulted in breaking of the security belt around Kabul and several thousand armed Mujahideen belonging to different parties entered the capital.
War conditions forced parties to arm their supporters inside Kabul. In the meantime, some members of the previous regime and criminals who had been set free from prison were armed. Each leader brought a large number of armed Mujahideen with him. Government offices and even private houses were occupied by armed groups. Under these circumstances, provision of security, in the capital became a daunting task.
ana police torce to look alter law and order issues.
The Islamic government has been recognized , by more than thirty countries. Official delegations from Pakistan, Iran, the United States, Russia, Egypt and Sudan visited Kabul. The UN has appealed for SI80 million in reconstruction funds.
Afghan refugees continue to return in large numbers. UN sources estimate the number of returning refugees at 7,000 people per day. Their actual number is much higher. The government of Pakistan has allowed Lhe refugees to take with them all their belongings. It has also lifted restrictions on bringing food, fuel and construction material into Afghanistan.
But the new government stil faces tremendous economic problems. Supplies of food and fuel are. short.
Plans to form a regular army and police force did not translate into action due to political mancuvrcs by different parties.
The most tragic evcnl of this period was the armed clash between Hczb-i-Wahdal and lttihad-i-Islami. Several hundred people were cither killed or wounded in these clashes which continued for five days. A large number of houses were destroyed.
The forces under Lhe command of the Defense Ministry played a key role in bringing the fighting to an end. The
To persuade foreign countries to give assistance to Afghans, the embassies of Afghanistan should be activated. These embassies are still run by the diplomats of the former regime. Appointing good people to these posts can help the Islamic government to draw the world's attention towards the plight of the Afghan people.
Appointing a capable diplomat as the Islamic Government's ambassador to the United Nations will help the Islamic government to deal with the world body more effectively.
leaders of the two parties blamed undisciplined
Mujahideen for the start of the -clash.
A statement of the foreign ministry warned foreign