AFGHANews Vol 6, No 8, April 15,1990, page ©
Jami'at disapproves of creation of 'peace and tranquility zones'
UN has announced a program of voluntary return of Afghan refugees from Iran and Pakistan to 'peace zones' in Afghanistan beginning from coming summer. The UN program does not consider formation of a representative government in Kabul necessary for the repatriation of the refugees.
The program is Sased on the assumption that in two third of Afghan territory war has ended and the refugees can return to the areas where hostilities have ceased. According to the program the two sides in the conflict, the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime, should not take any military action in 'peace and tranquility zones'.
In order to get the support of the neighboring countries. Mujahideen and the Kabul regime, the UN Coordinator for Afghanistan, Prince Sadruddin visited the areas and discussed his plans with them.
The return of refugees to their home is a natural desire common among all of them. But, the cause of displacement must be eliminated to enable the refugees to return in safety and honor.
War was the cause of displacement of refugees. Afghans raised against the communist regime in Kabul. When the Soviet invaded the war intensified and more refugees left their homes. After the Soviet troops left, the war did not end and as long as the Kabul regime is in power fighting will continue.
Afghan resistance is determined to continue fighting against the regime and Najibullah is not ready to hand over power to a broad-based government. The two sides are either fighting or preparing to fight. Low level of military activities in some areas should not be interpreted as a sign of returning peace.
The present stalemate situation in the battlefield will not last long. One side or the other must go to the offensive soon. The near future speaks of more fighting rather than return of peace. Under these circumstances how can the refugees return and feel safe? How can the UN provide them security and create conditions that they are not forced to become refugees again?
The idea of /peace zones' originates from the Russians and the Kabul regime. This plan was rejected by the Mujahideen. The adoption of the program by the UN will not make it acceptable to the resistance. The Mujahideen cannot accept the plan because it requires a sort of cease-fire and understanding between the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime.
The UN had told in the past that it will deal with the humanitarian and political aspects of the Afghan problem separately. But in the new proposal the humanitarian means are used to force the resistance to compromise with the Kabul regime and go ahead with its program of 'national reconciliation’.
Although the UN says that the repatriation of refugees will be voluntary, decrease in provisions for the refugees and false propaganda about normalization of the situation are the economic and psychological means employed to promote Agha Khan's plans for repatriation of refugees.
The way that the UN deals with the two sides of the conflict-the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime-is also objectionable.
The UN is not treating the two sides in the conflict equally. UN programs in Afghanistan are not properly discussed with the Mujahideen leaders. If there is any meeting between the UN official and the resistance leaders, it has a ceremonial significance. Afghan leaders are informed about the UN work through letters send by the UN officers after the work has done or through the media. This discriminatory behavior puts the natural position of the UN to question.
In dealing with the Mujahideen, the UN assumes that if the neighboring countries agree with a plan the resistance forces has no choice but to accept it.
_____________________Turn	to page (6 )____________'
Seminar discusses social changes in Afghanistan
By: John Jennings
A seminar honoring the memory of Afghanistan scholar Louis Dupree took place at the University of Peshawar’s Central Asian Studies Centre on March 20 and 21. Scholars, journalists and officials from Afghanistan, Pakistan and the west met publicly in a series of panel talks on changes in Afghan society resulting from more than a decade of invasion and resistance.
Participants in the conference, arranged by the Writers' Union of Free Afghanistan, were split about equally among Afghans, Pakistanis and west-oners. Dr. Nancy Dupree, Louis’ widow and an Afghan specialist herself who now directs the Afghan Resource Information Centre in Peshawar, was also among the organisers and honored guests.
Professor Isobelle Hemming, of the University of California at Los Angeles, said the seminar had produced a lively exchange of opinions. "Most important of all, it was the kind of gathering Louis would have enjoyed There really was a wide variety of views presented"
On the first day of the seminar, the panels, of about a half-dozen specialists apiece, discussed issues of refugee resettlement in Afghanistan's varied geographic regions; political leadership pattens past and present; and the geopolitical implications of Afghan affairs.
On the second day, panels discussed how to approach die study of changes in Afghan culture and society; the preservation of Afghanistan’s artistic and archaeological heritage; rebuilding a "services infrastructure" for medi- i cal and other public needs; and the impact of foreign aid on* Afghan society.
The tone of the discussions, and the scholars' viewpoints, were generally secular. On the second day, however, Professor Nazif Shahrani, an Afghan who teaches anthropology at UCLA, made a forceful case for the role of revolutionary Islam in charting Afghanistan's course.
His remarks produced scowls and grumbles from some observers and participants. At least one distinctly nonreligious western participant, on the other hand, commented that such views are impossible to dismiss in any realistic discussion of the forces likely to determine Afghanistan's future.