AFGHANews Vol 5, No 16 & 17, September 1,1989, page ©
Glimpses into the historic background of	Part	(9)
The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
Jabha-i-Milli Nijat-i-Afghanistan (National Front for the Salvation of Afghanistan) was formed to unite all Afghan groups and personalities against the communists.
This was possible by informing the people about what had happened and was happening in their country, by encouraging them to rise against the regime with available resources and by seeking the political and financial support of the Islamic countries to support the people's uprising.
In die previous part, I discussed some of the things which were considered in Jabha’s Executive Council.
In order to bring other Afghan groups into Jabha the Central Committee of Jabha formed a committee on February 27, 1979 to work for die achievement of this aim.
Three parties, Hezb Islami, Harakat Mohammadi and Mahaz Milli (Sayed Ahmad Gailani) had not participated in Jabha.
The committee had three members: Mohammad Musa Tawana, Naqibullah Sahibzada, and Kifayatullah.
The first thing that the committee did, was to meet with Mufti Mahmoud, the president of Jami’atul Ulama-i-Pakistan. He was interested to see the Mujahideen united.
The committee members met with Mufti Mahmoud twice, once in Ghazni Khail village Bannu district, N.W.F.P and the next time in the headquarters of his party in Lahore.
In the second meedng Maulawi Nabi Mohammadi who had close ties with Mufti Mahmoud's party was also present. We discussed the issue of joining Harakat to Jabha but talks did not make progress because Mufti Mahmoud was suspicious of our close ties with Jamaat Islami of Pakistan (Maulana Maududi). Our attempts to tell him that we respected him and his party did not succeed. He seemed worried about the future of Harakat after joining Jabha and was afraid that the leadership of Harakat would fall in the hands of someone else other than Maulawi Nabi. We finished the meeting with a hope to meet again but did not meet him because he died (May Allah grant him peace) and we.did not meet with any of his party leader to discuss the issue with them.
. One of the important decisions that was made by die Central Council of
BY: Dr. Tawana
Jabha was a call for a general uprising against the communist regime. This decision was made on March 4,1979.
Anti-government groups had been formed but a general uprising had not taken place. We thought that a general uprising was the only way of toppling the communist regime.
The committee appointed the date of the uprising March 12,1979. At that time all Afghans were supposed to rise against the communists with what was available so that the people rid themselves of the communist regime.
We did not have any weapons in Peshawar. We bought some old weapons and ammunition and distributed them among the Mujahideen along the borders with Pakistan.
We did not have cash to buy the weapons and ammunitions we got them on credit. We hoped that the money would be paid later when donation collected by Afghan friends in Saudi Arabia was sent We did not receive the donations because it was sent to a host party to be given to the Mujahideen. It give it to the parties who were not cooperating with Jabha in its military efforts.
Jabha was deprived of these donations and this caused the relation between Jabha and that host party to become sour.
Some ex-officers who had defected to the Mujahideen were appointed assistants to the local commanders to help them in the general uprising but the authority rested with the local commanders. The plan was carried in Ningarhar, Paktia, Perwan Kapisa and Kabul which were not far from the bolder.
On March 11,1979, Jabha issued a letter, in Pushtu and Persian, asking the . Afghan nation to raise against the red colonialism and its Afghan surrogates. The letter had asked other parties to direct their followers to help us in the big task that we had started. But, they did not help and confined themselves to minor actions.
In the last session of Jabha's Central Committee held on March 21, 1979, a Supervisory Committee which was headed by Dr. Zabihullah Mujaddidi was formed.
The purpose of setting up the committee was to supervise management work and correct some of the misconducts which was taking place.
Before convening the above meeting relations between Jami'at and Prof. Mujaddidi the head of Jabha had cooled. Jami'at, without any formal announcement was distancing itself from Jabha. Finally formal separation took place and Jabha became a separate party undo: the leadership of Prof. Mujaddidi.
Note: The series of articles under the name of glimpses into the Islamic Movement, in Afghanistan written by Dr. Tawana was a translation of a series of articles published in an Arabic magazine of Al-Mujakidoon publish by Jami'at. Although the story of the movement is not finished the translation of the. published articles are completed. Our readers should not expect the remaining parts in the near future. We hope to complete the rest of the story in the future.
From page (4)
in making these military operations successful. The Mujahideen in the battlefields must cooperate with each other. The Interim Government and the Mujahideen leaders should not waste their time discussing secondary issues. They must support the military efforts of the commanders inside the country.
Once the Mujahideen have taken the military initiative in hand and have rebuilt the confidence of the people about their inevitable victory the way for a political solution to the problem can also open.
With a proper military strategy, re-organization of forces, cooperation among different groups and necessary resources .the Mujahideen can take steps in the way of ending the rule of the Soviet-imposed regime in Kabul
You will read
An interview with Com. Ahmad Shah Masood will be published in the comming issue of Afghanews. He will throw light on the military and political situations in Afghanistan. The Inerview was made in Taloqan, the provincial capital of Takahr, in the last week of August.