HFSHRrt HEUS UOL.IV, HD, 1,        I/1/I9BB,  Pfl6E  3
 Baikh province. The troops launched attacks on Mujahideen bases outside the Maimana city to force the Mujahideen to get out of the city The Mujahideen withdrew from the city
 Russians launched their attack oat Darband, where Yar Mohammad's base was located, on December S. Mujahideen resisted strongly and forced the invading troops to retreat. Mujahideen shot down one helicopter and inflicted heavy' casualties on the enemy, (the exact number is not available). Six Mujahideen were martyred and about ten persons were wounded
 On December 11, Commander Yar Mohammad came to Darband Before reaching his base, he and the Mujahideen with him came under sudden bombardment byy three Russian helicopters. Yar Mohammad and four of his Mujahideen were martyred and two persons were wounded.
 The next day, Dec 12, Mujahideen shot down one enemy helicopter
 In the mid-December, the Mujahideen held a meeting under the leadership of Mawlavi Sayed Yusuf, general Amir of jamiat Mujahideen in Faryab, in Almar District to discuss the future operations of Mujahideen.
                                            BADAKHSHAN PROVINCE
 In an operation against military posts in Fazabad airport on December 13, Mujahideen captured one of the posts. The operation took place under the command of Abdul Basir. By conquering the Lai Aba post. Mu jahideen captured 70 soldiers. 66 AK~47s. two heavy machineguns. five light machineguns and a lot of ammunition. About 30 of the enemy troops were killed and wounded. Seven Mujahideen were martyred and 12 were injured. Some local population were also martyred or wounded by heavy Russian bombardment.
 Because of the Mujahideen s heavy fire, an ammunition depot was set on fire. As a result of the operation the airport was closed for one week.
                                            BAGHLAN PROVINCE
 28/U/39S-7: In a series of operations against the enemy forces, the Mujahideen of Hasantai area under the command of Arbab Juma were able to capture 4 posts belonging to the puppet army in Shahri Kuhna area North of Baghlan city
 During the fighting. 9 enemy soldiers were killed and 10 others were taken as prisoners while the rest fled making use of darkness. About 94 light weapons were seized from the posts during the operation
 By wiping out DRA posts, the area came under full control of the Mujahideen.
                                             KUNDUZ PROVINCE
 16/11/19S7: Mujahideen led by Arif Khan, the general commander of Jami'at in Kunduz, carried out an operation against enemy forces on Kunduz-Shirkbac highway. The fighting lasted for 3 hours in the morning and resulted in the destruction of 3 APCs and killing of 12 enemy soldiers. Seven soldiers including 3 miiitias and a DRA officer were taken prisoner.
 Mujahideen had no casualties in the operation, the report said.
                                              KABUL PROVINCE
 21/11/1987: Fighting broke out between Mujahideen and DRA forces which were trying to resupply their posts in Aka Kb ail village of Qarabagh district Facing Mujahideen