AFGHANews Vol 7, No 9, May 1,1991, page Q
Afghan issue causes dispute among Pakistani politicians
The visit of two Pakistani politicians to Khost after its liberation provoked an angry reaction by the Kabul regime . and its sympathizers in Pakistan.
Qazi Hussain Ahmad, the leader of Jamaat Islami of Pakistan, visited Khost accompanying Gulbuddin Hikmatyar. Jamaat sources claimed that he had gone on a mediation mission between Hikmatyar and Haqqani, who had developed differences over the way Hezb used the Khost victory for publicity and seizure of weapons.-It is believed that the leader of Jamaat Islami, who is a senator is very close to Hikmatyar, and one can find a lot of similarities between the views of the two on issues concerning Jehad and worldwide Islam.
A few days later, Maulawi Fazel Rahman, the leader of Jamaat Ulama-i-Islam, visited Khost at the invitation of Com. Haqqani. In press conference held in Khost he asked the Pakistan government to extend recognition to the Afghan Interim Government.
Haqqani is a graduate of a traditional Madrasa and has close contacts with traditional mamas in Pakistan,
The Pakistani press labelled the trip of the two leaders to Khost a competition between the two Pakistani religious organizations.
A member of Pakistan senators and some members of the National Assembly sharply criticized the visit by Pakistan politicians to Khost, and called it a breach of the Geneva Accords signed between Pakistan and the Kabul regime.
Senator Mahmood Khan Achakzay, the leader of a leftist party in Baluchistan and Ajmal Khatak, the president of the National Awami Party (ANP), criticized the Visit. Both lived in exile in Afghanistan for several years as political refugees and are known for their sympathetic views on the Kabul regime.
However, relations between the ANP led by Wali Khan and the Kabul regime have become strained. The Kabul regime supported the radical elements, led by Afrasiab Khatak, to break away from the ANP. Kabul is unhappy about the ANP's support for Nawaz Sharifs government. It is. said that Ajmal Khatak's statement in the National Assembly of Pakistan, in support of Kashmiris and criticizing the Indian government, has dismayed Kabul — a traditional ally of Delhi.
Meanwhile, the Pakistan government has decided to accept the academic credentials of about 2000 Pakistanis who have studied in Soviet and East European universities. These students who mainly belong to National Awami Party and other leftist groups, had left Pakistan illegally, and the Kabul regime had arranged their studies with the concerned countries. The main idea behind such a plan was to train revolutionary cadres in N.W.F.P and Baluchistan.
Until recently the government of Pakistan had refused to accept the credentials of the "illegal students". Cooperation between the ANP and Nawaz Sharifs government paved the way for this concession.
American scholar says:
Najib still follows KGB
Anthony Arnold, an American scholar and author of The Soviet Invasion of Afghanistan, has said the main player in Soviet policies is the KGB. The Soviet army had been discredited by taking part in suppression of local uprisings in the USSR, but the KGB has not suffered such a set back. This has put the KGB in a position to play a key role in shaping Soviet policies.
The KGB wants to show a human face by bringing about cosmetic changes, such as changing the names of some institutions. For qxample, the name Comsomol, the Youth Organization of the Communist Party, has been changed.
He said the KGB had kept its close ties with Najibullah, and the Kabul regime had adopted a similar policy of changing institutional names. But the changes have not altered the basic aims of the communist system.
Arnold said: "I suggest that our government should continue to support the Mujahideen as long as the Soviet support the Kabul regime. I think Soviets give ten times more to Najibullah regime than our government gives to the Mujahideen.”
He reiterated that since there was no change on Soviet Afghan policy, the West and US should riot reduce their assistance to the Afghan resistance.
Editorial
From page (4) by the adventuristic policies of Baghdad's dictator. Allied forces encouraged the Kurds to launch military attacks against Baghdad, but when the Kurds took up the challenge and faced Saddam's military machine, they were abandoned.
The deathly silence of the world's Muslims over the plight of the Kurds is deplorable. During the Gulf war thousands of people streamed into the streets (including members of some Islamic parties) to show sympathy with the people of Iraq. Where are they, now that millions of Iraqi Kurds are facing death on the mountain tops.
Jami'at does not have any sympathy with the leftist policies of Kurdish political organizations. Borrowed ide ologies have never suited Muslims. Our sympathies are with the millions of ordinary Kurds who have been suffering for so long. We hope to see an end to the current Kurdish crisis. And we want to see leaders in Muslim countries who are above using chemical weapons and SCUDs against their own people.
Bookworms storm classic peotry
Demand for a classic poetry book. Char Ketab, in Tajikistan have surprised its publishers.
I When Char Ketab, a classic poetry bode written by the great mystic Shaikh Fariduddin Attar (513-618 lu» nar Hijri) was published on February 1, people rushed to buy it The demand was so great that the book was sold at five times its cover price in the black market.
Char Ketab is being used in Afghanistan in all mosque schools. Its simple language and humane message has made it very popular.
The people in .Tajikistan were not allowed to have access to. classic Islamic literature. The limited freedom allowed them by Gorbachev is being fully used to renew their links with the glorious Islamic past
Seminar on Afghanistan
A one-day conference to discuss the. Afghan situation after the fall of Khost was held in Paris on April 18 The conference was organized by BIA a French private humanitarian organization.
In this conference some Afghans, living in Pakistan and the West, and French experts took part. The US and Soviet embassies also sent representatives to the conference.