AFGHAN rEUS VQL. 111, NO.5, 1^3/ 196? PAGE 9
 Afghan Mujahideen, Turkish Cypriots and Moro Mujahideen were given only a very short time to tell the long story of their sufferings, The time of the speech was allocated late at night when the delegates were tired.
 Compared to Taif summit ,the proceedings of the conference on such a hot issue as Afghanistan , was very dull. There was little media converage of the proceedings
 From all the above it seems that despite lavish expenditure of money and extraordinary security measures , the summit fell short of the aspirations of those nations who fight for their freedom
                                  SOVIET SPONSORED ACT OF TERROR
                                                                                                              <
 A powerful bomb planted near a school in a village just outside Peshawar city caused great loss of precious lives. The bomb was hidden in a truck parked in front of a school and close to one of the offices of Jami'at Islami Afghanistan. The powerful bomb went off at 915 am on 19 Feb, killing 14 people and injuring more than 60. The local people reacted by taking procession which were joined later by students from different schools and workers of some political parties
                                                       f
 Anti government and anti-Mujahideen slogans were raised and several vehicles belonging to Afghan Refugees were either burned or damaged This is the first time that, the masterminds of terror in occupied Afghanistan have chosen schools for their targets and wanted to make a cause out of the blood and flesh of innocent children This was done after the announcement of So-called ceasefire an reconciliation program, by the puppets and just before the beginning of Geneva proximity talks
 The explosion took place after so-called signs of flexibility by^the Soviet leaders to find a solution to the problem of Afghanistan This barbaric act was aimed at creating misunderstanding between people of Pakistan and Afghan Refugees. This meant to put pressure on the Pakistan government and get belter terms in the Geneva talks
 Afghan Refugees fully sympathise with mourning families who lost their members. Some political leaders, sympathatic with the puppets in Afghanistan rushed to the scene and repeated their accusation against Mujahideen, and incited young people to attack refugees
                                                 o
 The over reaction of the people may encourage the communists in Afghanistan and their calloborators in Pakistan to carry out similar acts of subotage against innocent civilian targets
 Knowing about the conspiracy, prof. Rabbani, the leader of Jami’at Islmi Afghanistan went to Gari Faqir where the explosion had taken place and talked to the local people on Feb.22 Professor expressed his deep sorrow over the incident and called it a brutal act of common enemies of the people of Afghanistan and Pakistan He also announced a compansation of Rs. 5,000 for each martyred families and 1000 for each person injured and Rs 10,000 for rebuilding the school
 In order to avoid creation of misunderstanding between the people of Pakistan and Afghan refugees its necessary that Mujahideen parties fully co-operation with the Pakistan authorities in exposing the enemy agents
 The refugees will do anything possible to avoid repetition of similar incidents It is also necessary that our Pakistani brothers should not listen to fabricated stories made by those who are their hand in glove with the Soviets
              THERE IS NO OOD BUT ALLAH, MOHAMMAD IS THE PROPHET OF ALLAH