AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page

Battlefields
Bagram Air Base captured
The biggest air base of the Kabul regime in Bagram, 60 kilometers north of Kabul, fell to the Mujahideen of Jami'at on April 15. The Mujahideen are in control of a large number of transport planes, helicopters and sophisticated jet fighters.
; \
Herat liberated
The historic city of Herat was liberated by the Mujahideen on April 18, Commander Ismail Khan reported.
The Mujahideen control all military installations, airport and the city.
All the regime troops and officers were forgiven and the prisoners were set free.
A 30-member council has been famed to run the city. The members of the council sue chosen from among the elders; Ulama and Mujahideen.
The people of the city poured into the streets to welcome the victories of Mujahideen. Ismail Khan addressed the people of Herat on the local television. He also addressed a huge gathering of the people in the historic Jamai Mosque. The Mujahideen control Herat-lslam Qala and Herat-Torghundi roads.
The . Mujahideen also liberated Adraskan District on April 18.
The Mujahideen of Jami’at liberated Otoe District on April 16, Commander Azizullah Afzali reported. They seized four tanks, 1500 heavy and light weapons and some ammunitions.
were seized by the Mujahideen.
Badakhshan freed
Faizabad, the provincial capital of Badakhshan Province, was liberated by the Mujahideen of Jami'at on April 19 after bloody clashes with the regime troops.
The Mujahideen woe led by Abdul Basir Khalid, a major Jami'at commander in Badakhshan. Forces belonging to SAZA, a communist organization, resisted the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen lost 50 men while 120 were wounded. The regime troops suffered heavy casualties too.
The Mujahideen seized 60 armored cars, tanks and vehicles, four BM-21 rocket launchers and thousands of light and heavy guns.
Commander Jora, a prominent commander of Jami'at, was among the martyrs. All the regime troops and militiamen were disarmed.
Kandahar liberated
Kandahar, the second largest city in Afghanistan fell to the Mujahideen on April 20. Commanders from different parties control military institutions and strategic points of Kandahar.
A 21-member council has assumed the responsibility of running the city. Governor and military commander of the regime are members of the council.
Commander Naqibullah of Jami'at is in control of headquarters of Division No. 15. The fall of Kandahar was the result of negotiations held between the commanders of the regime and the Mujahideen.
Badghis liberated Kunduz liberated
Qala-i-Naw, the provincial capital of Badghis, was liberated on April 20. The regime forces surrendered to Mawlawi Ibrahim and Commander Nazari, both belonging to Jami'at. A large number of heavy and light weapons, including trucks and armored cars.
In a joint operation, the Mujahideen of Jami'at, Harakat and Ittihad liberated the city of Kunduz on April 18. All regime posts around the city and the airport are being controlled by the Mujahideen.
Commander Arif Khan acted as the
chief commander of die operation.
Soroobi captured
All regime military units in Soroobi, 50 kilometers east of the city of Kabul, surrendered to the Mujahideen on April 18. A council representing five parties, including Jami'at, has taken the charge of the district Soroobi is located on Kabul-Jalalabad road. The Mujahideen control the two power station in Soroobi.
Paghman liberated
The Mujahideen of Jami'at liberated Paghman District, a resort town 25 kilometers west of Kabul, on April 22, Commander Mullah Ezat reported. It seems that the surrender of the regime forces has been peaceful.
Logar liberated
Pul-i-Alam, the provincial capital of Logar Province, fell to the Mujahideen on April 21, Commander Dr. Fazlullah reported. Other districts of the province have also been liberated.
Gerdez lieberated
Gardez, the provincial capital of Piaktia province, fell to the Mujahideen on April 22, Commander Haqqani reported. The Mujahideen launched an attack on the city after negotiation for a peaceful surrender of the garrison failed.
Jalalabad freed
The Mujahideen brought Jalalabad under their control after the military commander and governor of the city agreed to lay down aims on April 23. Jalalabad was the scene of heavy battles between the Mujahideen and the communist forces immediately after the Soviet troops withdrawal.
The Mujahideen have already formed an administration to rule the city. Commander Abdul Qadir from Hezb Islami (Khalis) was chosen the governor of Ningaihar Province.
Maimana liberated
The Mujahideen of Jami’at took control of Maimana, provincial capita of Faiyab, on April 22 after the regime forces in the city agreed to lay down their arms, Mawlawi Sayyed Yousuf reported. A council comprising from Ulama, commanders and elders have been famed to run the city. The Mujahideen celebrated their victory on April 23 by convening a meeting in which thousands of people took pan.