 to Muhmoud Raqi (the provincial capital of Kapisa province) and from there to         • Textile Mills of Gulbahar at the mouth of the Panj-
                                              t            *
 shir valley.
 The engray attack continued for six successive days. The intensity qf the attacks were unprecedented. Fifteen tanks, APCs and trucks we*® destroyed by RPG, Recoilless rifles, mortars and jnines. After six $ays the enemy was forced to retreat from their newly established posts.
 One hundred fifty enemy (Soviet & DRA) soldiers were killed or woqnded. Two Muijahids were martyred . Losses among civilians and material damage was great.
 It should be noted that Abdulla Burj is located on the Panjshir River near the Bag ram Air Base.’ Mujahideen from this area are led by a very brave Commander, Mohammad Shaheen who has been fighting for seven years. This Commander, besides being a good soldier has won the hearts of his people and this is why he is able to defeat the enemy in such'a flat area and so close to the Soviet base.
                                         KABUL PROVINCE
 Feb-4-86_
 The enemy landed troops in Jawzak area of Kohi Safi. Mujahideen clashed with the enemy. The enemy had some losses. As a result of aerial bombardments which followed the attack, two Mujahids were wounded.
 Jan-25--a.6-                               “
 Mujahideen from Jamiat Nazar attacked an enemy post in Charbolak district. Nineteen •oamy soldiers (DRA) were captured along with ten
 guns. The dost ms destroyed.
 Febr14::§6
 Mujahideen captured two intact tanks in'Choulgar district. They also
 captured on® PK Machine gun- two AK~47s , one Carabine gun and some
 ammunition. One puppet regime officer was captuted and one hundred soldiers were killed.
 Mujahideen burnt the tanks after disassembling its Daschk and Grenove madhine guns. Ifatfahid»«n ar« not able to use tanks in the area because they are an easy target for the enemy air force.
                       V/AR PiIOTOG^P^t BY APG^S
 Every body knows the importance of photography in reporting a war. In the past some photo-journalists have gone to Afghanistan and have done a good job in explaining the situation. But the number of these people are limited and they can only go for a short time. Many events go unrecorded.
 The solution.to the problem is to involve Afghans themselves. Each party has a committee for this type of work. If they get the right type of equipment and material and if some Afghans are trained for work the result would be remarkable.