AFGHANews Vol 7, No 20, October 15,1991, page ©
From the diary of Jehad	Part	(2)
A short visit to Badakhshan
In Jonn, I met with Sayyed Abdul Azim Mujaddidi (Zalmay), the commander of the center of the district He was a familiar face to me because some years ago, when he worked with Commander Masood, I had met him. He is from Jonn and belongs to the well-known Mujaddidi family. Zalmay is a graduate of the Geography Department of the Faculty of Literature of Kabul University. His knowledge about maps made him a useful person to Masood. He made models of the military targets. He is a soft-spoken person who treats the people kindly. He became commander of Jonn two years ago at the request of the local people. His only shortcoming is lack of enough experience in fighting.
Jorm is a fertile valley through which the Kookcha River passes. The lapis mines are located in the upper part of Jonn. While mines have had a positive effect on the economy of the people, they also have been a source of political Instability for the area in the past. After the fall of Kuran, the district was reorganized and its people have lived in peace.
The Mujahideen of Jorm took active part in liberation of Zebak, Eshkashim and Wakhan Districts.
The physical appearance of Jorm was not very different from eleven years ago. It was not very much affected by the war. Empty government buildings and some destroyed armored cars and tanks were the reminders of the occupation its center by the communist forces. The bazaar of Jorm was half empty. Many shops were closed. The remaining had some essential goods for sale but at very high prices. Abundance of apples and melons had given the market a good look.
I visited a foundry workshop in Jorm where teapots, cookers, and agricultural equipments were made from metals obtained form shot down Soviet planes and helicopters and destroyed military vehicles and engineers bridges made from light metals. The workers in the foundry were highly skilled. I tried to find some local handicrafts in the shops but could not. Ten years ago, one could find these items. It seemed that the war had inflicted a serious blow on the local handicraft
Jorm is an agricultural area. People were busy in their fields. I was told by the authorities in Jorm that distribution of improved seed by some relief aid organizations have had a positive effect on farm products. I saw also construction of the headworks of two irrigation channels by
Mohammad Es'haq fa
some relief organizations. Work on a channel to irrigate a new area was in progress. Engineer Rashid of RAF A supervised the construction works.
There are two high schools (one for boys and one for girls) and many primary schools in Jorm. A mine awareness instructor taught the students how to deal with mines if they saw one. He was trained and paid by the UN to inform the public about the danger of landmines. Besides running schools, die Mujahideen have also opened Madrasas (religious schools) and classes for memorizing the Holy Quran. Despite the Mujahideen's deep interest in education, it seems that the atmosphere for education is not as favorable as it was before the war. One of the reasons is the interruption of classes caused by aerial bombings. For ex
Commander Sayyed Najmuddin
ample, the Kabul regime jets bombed Jorm and other liberated areas of Badakhshan for 40 days this year forcing the Mujahideen to close down the schools.
I met with a captured pilot whose plane was shot down by die Mujahideen during a bombing mission. He is from Jorm and has studied in military schools in Kabul and Soviet Union. His Su-22 jet was shot down with a Stinger missile and he eject himself and landed safely with a parachute. The pilot claimed that he did not attack civilian targets but many civilians were killed during the air raids which lasted about six weeks. After shooting down of his plane, bombing of Jorm had stopped. The pilot's movements were restricted but he was treated well.
During my stay in Jorm, I was able to get hold of some publications by die Cultural Committee of the Mujahideen. The committee publishes a fortnightly paper by die name of Paigham-i-Mujahid (the message of the freedom fighter). It is printed in it duplication machine. They cannot print
more than 300 copies due to shortage of paper. The paper has many technical and journalistic, shortcomings, but it is a valuable source of information about the local events and a window to the way of thinking of the Mujahideen of the area.
On the way from Baharak to Jorm, a young man with fancy clothes got into our van. It seemed that he had come from a government-controlled city. He was sick. He told us that he was injured accidently in Jorm some months ago. His relatives who work for the regime arranged for his treatment in the Soviet Union. He had flown from Badakhshan to Mazar and from there to Termiz, a Soviet border town. He had seen special hospitals for treatment of war wounded Afghan soldiers. Tajik doctors were asking why there was still fighting in Afghanistan while the Soviet troops were not there anymore. He saw a rehabilitation center in Termiz where many militias belonging to Rashid Dostum were under treatment. It was interesting for me to sec that a wounded person from a liberated area can find a way to be treated in the Soviet Union. In some areas, the Mujahideen do not tolerate such things. Each area in Afghanistan has its own special circumstances which is not easy to understand if you are not spending some time there.
After four days of waiting in Jorm, Commander Najmuddin returned from an important- meeting with Masood. Aryanpoor and a representative of Basir Khalid. They had met in Keshm Valley to discuss the military situation in Badakhshan. Faizabad, die provincial capital of Badakhshan. is a target of the Mujahideen's future attacks. Sayyed Najmuddin had returned from the meeting happy and it seemed that the talks had gone well.
He received me . and any my friends warmly, I had met him eleven years ago when the Mujahideen had just captured Baharak and were preparing to attack Faizabad. Najmuddin, 35, began armed struggle against the communist regime in 1978. At the start he fought in Kunar. He returned to Badakhshan in 1979 and since then has been engaged in Jehad without taking a break. He studied primary school in various parts of Badakhshan and graduated from Beghlan Agricultural School. In high school he joined the Islamic Movement. He worked as an agricultural officer for six months before the communist coup. Immediately after the coup, he migrated to Pakistan.
He can be described a fearless commander with deep commitment to Islam. He expresses his opinion very clearly. He is in