  MGM&MSS________MJI_______ML22_____15/11/1986___PAGE 6
 their troops from the other side of the the river. They have established p6sts inside the the Soviet territory opposite each Afghan village . They have stationed tanks and other heavy weapons in these posts. When they want they pound Afghan villages from these
 posts.
 Almost all the military operations launched by the enemy in the area are in the form of commando actions. Planes fly from the Soviet territory and even the heavy weapons fire from the Soviet Union.
 Last year (1985), Soviets massacred 60 civilians in Walfath’ village using hand grenades. Among those who were killed were women and children. In this village and a neighboring village 100 houses were razed to the ground by enemy planes.
 The Soviets are being helped by about 700 militiamen from Darwaz. These people are affiliated with a communist party called Setam-i-Milli(National Depression Party), a faction of the Khalq party which seperated from it some years back. No Khalqi or Perchami is present in the area.
 Mujahideen have been very active (taking into account their limited resources) in the area. Some times they have carried out cross border operations. Last year , Samiuliah a commander of the Mujahideen crossed the river at night with his friends and attacked a Soviet post, killed some soldiers and returned back safely. Mujahideen have also mined roads inside the Soviet Union which has destroyed some vehicles.
 A big explosion took place in Qala-i-Khan air base inside the Soviet Union. Ammunition dumps burned for one weak and a number of helicopters and antonov planes were destroyed. Mujahideen of the area claim responsibility for this action and say that it was their sabotage work.
 The Soviets are making use of pressure anti-personnel mines in Darwaz. These are plastic mines which can not be detected by metal detectors.
 The Soviets try to terrorize the civilian popultion of the area to stop them from helping the Mujahideen. One day they killed 8 people with axes in broad daylight. They were suspected of helping Mujahideen.
 Despite all the difficulties and enemy pressure the morale'of the Mujahideen is high and they believe in their final victory, They are unitied and relatively organized. They badly need weapons , ammuntion and cash to buy their needs and the needs of the people in the area.
                                             PUPPETS ADMIT
 Najibullah.the leader of the puppet regime has admitted that some students publicly express their anti-Soviet sentiments in educational instituations run by the puppet regime. He warned that such oppositions would be crushed by strong measures.
 Most of the people living in the Soviet controlled areas support the resistance. So far all the harsh measures to curb such anti- Soviet activities has failed and Najibs remarks is a sign the of frustration of the puppets.
                                           WISHFUL THINKING
 The Soviet puppets in Afghanistan have made many false promises to their their latest is the most extreme.
 Najib has promised the party members that Kabul province will be cleared of the presence of Mujahideen in a period of three months.Najib has resorted to the slogans of 1978.1n those days they were boasting about their victories and were thinking that they had succeeded in imposing the Soviet system on the Afghan people. They were