AFGHANews Vol 8, No 20, October 15, 1992, page ©
Dear editor,
I was very happy today when I received your letter. First, because it came from you and second, because it came from Kabul. I am sure a new era is beginning now.
I know it is a very hard task to manage all these evcnLs and to cope with the great frustrations shared by those who can hardly believe their country has recovered its freedom. The side-effects of such a long, tragic and devastating war cannot be rubbed out in few days or weeks, and the path leading to peace may be hard and long.
You know perfectly well it is easier to fight against a common enemy jh;--? to move and cooperate for peace. My wish is that peace become a common goal for Afghans as there is no more common enemy. Maybe foreign elements arc interested in disputes and unrest among Afghans, but I hope they will be wise enough to understand and admit that Afghanistan belongs to Afghans and to nobody else.
I know the situation is sLill unstable ig Kabul and I think we have to respect a decent interval so that you can master the turmoil following your historic victory, and then begin to enjoy the peace you are wailing for. Bui you know we arc anxious to see again all our friends we had chance to mccL during all these bloody years.
Please convey my best regards to Ahmad Shah Masood.
Jean-Jose Puig
Paris, France
Dcair Friend,
I would like. First to thank you for the quality of AFGHANews I read from the beginning to the end with great interest.
I want to tell you how happy I am to see Afghanistan free at last. After 14 years of war, sacrifice and resistance, I understand the emotion and happiness of people of Afghanistan.
I went four times to your country for humanitarian purposes in 1986 and 1987 (each lime with Jami'aL Islami) and you can also understand my happiness that next time I will go there 1 will be in Kabul.
Paul Adrian
Paris-Francc
Dear editor,
I write you this letter to congratulate you on your victory against the tyrant regime of Najibullah.
I and your Muslim brothers in West Africa arc very glad about your final victory.
We expect from the Mujahideen to bury their differences and unite to achieve their final objectives.
I appeal to the government in Kabul to check tl>e wave of violence and armed robbery because , these incidents damage the image of Jehad.
Wc would like to express our appreciation lo Usiaz Rabbani, Commander Masood, Gul Haider, Mohammad Es’haq, the editor of AFGHANews, and all those who contributed one way or the other towards the cause-of Jehad.
Ustaz Abbas Muhammcd
Ghana, Africa
Dear editor,
I congratulate you and ail Mujahideen on your victory and pray for the success of the Islamic Government.
I was very happy to receive the latest issue of AFGHANews from Kabul. I used to translate some of its articles into the Farsi and Pushtu languages and distribute them among Afghans living in Germany.
With great sorrow I would like to inform you that we do not receive any publication in Pushtu or Farsi. I would be very glad if you would help me in this regard.
Yar Mohammad Mohabbat
Jami'at representative
Germany
Dear editor,
I was very happy that I received the two last issues of AFGHANews posted from Kabul.
I use to write articles about Afghanistan and sent them to the French papers. Therefore, I need to get publications of the new Islamic government. I will appreciate it if you help me in providing the address of the newspapers of the new Islamic Slate.
Mohammad Qascm Saikal
France
Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) in Logar Province, arid his driver were killed: in Gardiz by unidentified gunmen on September 9, the Hezb paper,;
idervof Hezb,
ili
Mamoor Abdul
Logar Provinceion September 30, f;.
• A plane chattered to. carry 30 tonnes of
doctors • fromV; ^	J;-	:SanS
Frontiers (Doctors Without Frontiers) left from Toulotrspii^ on September 9 On '$$$& missi^.ih ^Afghanistan, . \ •
The pike will land afthe ftoi*
tier, town of Tefthez,	Tt&
medidne . will . , be;.;:	.by • -feted	::lp
Mazar to help the refugees of the
rbeik-mtacks	^
••• • Australia pledged on September 10 to give Australian S3.5 million (USS2.5 million) in emergency aid
'Hi;	IBS!
The money will be provided under the United Nations appeal for emergency humanitarian assistance for Afghanistan.
Indian government has donated nine tonnes of medicine and medical instruments <o the Islamic State of
Oh Sept<kb6r 3. "
A person who killed commander
i;	) :He?i|j:::::;Bl^i-; :tt|:day#
back was executed in Kuna
Noor Mohammad who was the guard of the late commander was ar-
The Government of Pakistan has relumed the 12 trucks loaded with •weapon to Hezb lslamir The miic.jrS' .^ere cmying ammimition from. Pakistan to Afghanistan during Hikmatyars rocket attacks on. Kabul but seized:by) Pakistani police.’ • ;