AFGHANews Vol 5, No 24, December 15,1989, page @
ties have discouraging supporters of the resistance/The Farkhar killing of Jami'at commanders was an example of such a bad development In absence of good news of Mujahideen victories, the bad news of differences is blown out of proportion by the world media and leads some people to the wrong conclusion.
The Kabul regime and the Soviet Union have been successful in their propaganda campaign against the Mujahideen. The world press has. stopped criticizing the Soviet Union for continuing the war in Afghanistan. Now they even compare the US role in Afghanistan to that of the So\^et Union.
The Kabul regime and the Soviet Union have provided opportunities for journalists to visit Kabul and have given their side of the story. In comparison the Mujahideen have done little and have not spoken with one voice. The Kabul regime has used rocket attacks on Kabul as a major propaganda chip to gain the sympathy of the world, while the use of cluster bombs and SCUD missiles against ordinary people in the liberated areas have drawn little attention.
As a result there has been little pressure on the Soviets to change their Afghan policy and let Afghans to determine their future, instead of imposing a communist regime on them.
Since the direct talks between the Mujahideen and the Soviets at the beginning of the year, there has been no real move to find a political solution to the problem.
The UN passed a resolution in support of a political solution, but no practical steps were taken. One reason is the inflexible position of the regime and the Soviet Union after the survival of the regime for a few months.
The Kabul regime proposes direct talks and power-sharing. It seems the regime wants to play a key role in the future political system of the country, perhaps under a different name and even leadership.
The Mujahideen continue refusing to deal with the regime but have said that they will accept good Muslims who come from Kabul to be part of the government
The Zahir Shah option gained strength as the stalemate continued. American and Soviet officials met the king. The ex-king has refused to deal with regime. He has also avoided accepting the Mujahideen interim government He is waiting for the proper time to play a role which is still not known.'
While Soviet support for the regime has been beyond expectations, support for the Mujahideen has faced interruptions since the Soviet
withdrawal.
China improved its relations with the Soviet Union and Yuli Voronsov, a deputy foreign minister of USSR, has said that Chinese government has promised the Soviets they will not supply arms to the Mujahideen.
The government of the People’s Party has not changed Pakistan’s Afghan policy. Saudi Arabia has recognized the Mujahideen government The US still support the Mujahideen, but Afghan war is not as popular among Americans as it was before the Soviet withdrawal.
Iran has improved its relations with the Soviet Union and inclines toward a political solution through a regional approach. Iran's problems with Saudi Arabia and the US have made efforts to coordinate the Mujahideen supporters' activities more difficult
The plight of the Afghan people continued in 1989. People inside Afghanistan faced shortages of food and insecurity as a result of righting. The flow of refugees to neighboring countries has continued.
While the suffering of the civilian population in the cities has been the center of media attention, the continued hardships of the people in liberated areas has received little coverage.
Life for Afghan refugees in Iran and Pakistan has been difficult. The decrease in humanitarian aid since the Soviet troop withdrawal is worrisome.
Since most refugees have refused to return to Afghanistan, the UN’s planned reconstruction program has not begun. Prince Sadruddin's de-mining program has been limited to theoretical instruction for some refugees.
The human right situation in the country has not improved. A UN report speak of summary trial and mistreatment of the prisoners by the Kabul regime. Some Mujahideen groups also have been accused of mistreating prisoners.
Concern for the safety of civilians in the cities have made the Mujahideen cautious of using their weapons against enemy, targets within the perimeters of cities controlled by the regime. It has also prevented the Mujahideen from imposing a full blockade of the cities.
The message of 1989 for the Mujahideen and their supporter is clear. The Mujahideen need to reorganize their forces and unite their ranks before they can achieve military victory. Without progress on the battlefield, there is no chance of a solution to the problem. Mujahideen supporters should help them by giving them what they need to gain the upper hand.
New Book
Russian Crimes, in Afghanistan is the name of a book written about the Soviet penetration into a peaceful neighboring country through economic and political means. It covers the period from 1826 until the 1979 invasion. The author of the book, Dr. Sher Ahmad Nasri, is an Afghan scholar who has studied the issue for a long time.
He has made use of available written material on the subject iri addition to interviews with knowledgeable Afghans who have closely observed developments in their country.
The book is written in Dari( Afghan Persian) and is printed in Pakistan. It is 650 pages long. It costs Rs. 200 in Pakistan and $25 abroad, including postage.
Orders for the book may be made through the mailing address of AFGHANews.
WAD cheats British Lord
WAD, the regime’s ministry of secret police, has tried to show a human face by showing the list of 11,000 people killed by Taraki and Amin regimes to a visiting British politician.
The list was made public in 1980 after the Soviet invasion as a propaganda move to expose the nature of Amin's regime and to justify replacing him with Babrak Karmal.
The list was sljiown to Lord Nicolas bethel, who visited Kabul on the request of the Soviets to help release Soviet prisoners
Mujaddidi meets Soviet professors
Prof. Mujaddidi, the president of the Afghan interim government, has had a meeting with three Russian professors from Moscow University during his stay in Washington.
The meeting was organized through the mediation of the Afghanistan Department of Nebraska University.
Prof. Mujaddidi told VO A that he informed the Soviet professors of the Soviet involvement in combat activities in Afghanistan. Prof. Mujaddidi was accompanied to the meeting by Dr. Lafraie, Eng. Ahmad Shah and Sayed Mukhdoom Ratlin.
Prof. Mujaddidi said that the meeting was not pre-planned and it was proposed to him during his visit to the US. ’