AFGHANews Vol 6, No 23, December 1, 1990, page Q
rs KGB style diplomacy
The head of the Kabul regime has paid a four-day visit to Geneva, during which he claimed to have held talks with some Afghans connected to some Mujahideen parties, and with the supporters of the former king.
Najib held a press conference in Geneva, but failed to name the person or persons with whom he claimed to have met.
Regime sources speculated that representatives of Zahir Shah and two moderate Mujahideen parties met with Najib. Prof. Mujaddidi and Pir Gailani rejected rumors they had met with Najib as false.
Prominent Afghans living abroad also denied holding meetings with Najib.
The situation became more complicated when two ranking UN officials working on Afghan issues came to Geneva while Najib was there,, and even stayed in the same hotel as he. Meanwhile, a Soviet delegation also was visiting Geneva. A UN spokesman said its officers were in Geneva in connection with another program and they were not involved in organizing Najib's trip.
On the way to Kabul, Najib's plane stopped in Mash’had, Iran, to refuel. This led to further speculation that representatives of Wahdat Party and Iranian officials met with him. The Iran government and Wahdat party spokesmen strongly rejected the rumors.
Najib's visit takes place after Gorbachev's visit to Rome during which he met with a representative of former king. It is said that Gorbachev suggested the former king play a role in bringing peace to Afghanistan.
Najib's trip could be a good example of KGB-style diplomacy. He went to Geneva to meet some people but refused to identify them. This left the press and Afghan Mujahideen to guess for themselves who had met with Najib. It was a deliberate effort to sow doubts among Mujahideen about each other.
Najib's move come after some positive developments in the Mujahideen camp. The commanders' council and their agreement on a military-political plan was very bad news for the ruler of Kabul. The council revived the confidence of Afghan people in the Mujahideen and generated great interest in Jehad. Further more, the agreement between Hezb and Jami'at to solve their differences through peaceful means was yet another serious threat to the Soviet-backed regime. Najibullah has survived so far because his opponents are not united and do not have a single high command to direct them in the war.To neutralize the effect of these important developments, Najib went to Geneva to show that there were some Mujahideen who did not want to fight and were in favor of a political settlement.
Concern expressed by some circles about the Hezb -Jami'at agreement gave Najib hope. The Geneva trip was undertaken to take advantage of this.
The Mujahideen once again are facing a situation which needs careful handling and consensus.
The slogan "No deal with Najib" must be maintained. Because no deal with Najib, short of his transfer of power, will bring peace to the country. Najib is not for peace. He wants to win the war by dividing the resistance. No responsible resistance leader or good citizen of Afghanistan, including the supporters of the former king, should fall in the trap of talking with Najib. Any such move will be used to consolidate his position and weaken that of the Mujahideen. A large section of the Afghan resistance will not deal with Najib under any circumstances and they oppose any approach which involves the communist rulers of Kabul. The Mujahideen in Afghanistan are carrying the burden of war and those living in exile enjoy a relatively comfortable life. If the Mujahideen oppose dealing with Najib for good reasons, how can One justify the approach of others who don't?
Turn to page (7)

Afghanistan
by George Arney
George Arney spent two years in Pakistan reporting for the BBC. He gives here a forthright, well-written analysis of the problems facing Afghanistan. His book is not only well-informed but outstandingly frank in its judgements on who is to blame for what has become the tragedy of Afghanistan. Arney sketches the history of modem Afghanistan, concentrating on the dramatic sequence of events since the Saur Revolution in April 1978. He is convinced there is no easy solution to end the war, not only because of the bitter passions and enmities aroused by this long, terribly costly struggle, but also because of the profound changes it has produced within Afghan society.
Najibullah, claims Arney, is now trying to pull off another coup - this time without fighting, by attempting to forge an unlikely coalition of disparate forces who want peace above all. The Afghan president, according to Arney, has a profound understanding of his fellow-countrymen. "However tainted his background and intentions, Najibullah has learned to speak straight to the heart of ordinary Afghans".
Arney is naturally quite critical of the lack of political achievement by the Mujahideen, in spite of their stubborn, heroic resistance, against the USSR. They have enjoyed not wily admiration as freedom fighters, but large-scale financial and military backing from many foreign countries. Yet time and again, he complains, commanders have failed to coordinate tactics and exploit the situation, allowing government forces to seize the advantage. What has let down the Mujahideen, judges Arney, "is their bankrupt political leadership". The moderates lack courage to act, he explains, while the extremists dominate on all sides.
Vivid sketches are given of the main personalities in this struggle. Arney found it unnerving to meet for Turn to page (7 )
V_____________1----------J