AFGHANews Vol5, No 15, August 1,1989, page©
News
tftf
From the battlefields
Herat province
On July 4, the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the enemy post of Rawza Bagh in Guzara district One militiaman was killed and two were wounded.
On July 5, the Mujahideen killed four communist officers and captured three soldiers in Adraskan district. Seven guns were seized in the operation.
On July 6, two enemy tanks were destroyed and an unknown number of enemy troops were killed or wounded when the Mujahideen fired rockets into their positions in Kariz Soft of Guzara district.
On July 9, the Mujahideen from Jami'at liberated three villages in Kariz Sob area killing 27 militiamen and wounding 25. Two Mujahideen were killed in the operation.
On July 8, the Mujahideen ambushed a unit of the enemy army close to the city killing seven soldiers and capturing eight. The Mujahideen seized one radio set and 15 Kalashnikov rifles.
On July 11, Mujahideen attacked enemy posts in Guzara district capturing 15 militiamen and seizing 13 Kalashnikov rifles, one radio set one 14.6 millimeter gun, one mortar, one truck and some ammunition.
One of the Mujahideen, junior commander Abdul Qadir, was killed and one Mujahid was injured.
The Mujahideen under the command of Ismail Khan destroyed three jets on the ground and killed or wounded 27 soldiers and officers of the regime when they attacked Herat airport with rockets on July 24.
On July 11, the Mujahideen captured eleven armed soldiers near Chashma-e-Khoni on the Herat-KandaharRoad.
On July 20, the Mujahideen killed 10 militiamen and captured 14 when they attacked Pahra village.
On the same day, one enemy tank was destroyed in the Rubat-Jebreel area. The Mujahideen killed two soldiers in Guzara district and captured two weapons.
The Mujahideen have killed Juma Liksak, an important militia figure and five of his men in Guzara, west of the city.
Paktia province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured Zaria Ghonday post in Khost district after four hours of fighting on July 19.
Three enemy militiamen were killed and seven were injured. The Mujahideen seized three Kalashnikov rifles, some ammunition and food stuff.
One Mujahid was also killed in the operation.
US, USSR talks
From page (1)
and concluded against the wishes of the resistance.
The prevailing military situation has also made the Soviets less flexible as for as the future of the regime is concerned. <
Contrary to earlier predictions, the regime has survived at least six months after the Soviets troop withdrawal. This has built confidence in the regime and the Soviets. They will not be ready to negotiate replacement of the communist regime which is the first requirement of any acceptable peace formula for the resistance.
Inability of the interim government to broaden its base and the recent massacre of Jami'at commanders by Hezb has provided further hope for the regime which fights the difficult war of survival.
Any political initiative that could lead to an acceptable peace formula will come after the present military situation has changed in favor of the Mujahideen.
30 commanders killed
From page (1)
Afghanistan, showed great distaste over the tragedy. He told Voice of America that Hezb (Hikmatyar) had been involved in the killing of commanders belonging to his party and others in Afghanistan and Pakistan. He demanded the trial of those responsible in Fetkahar killing by an Islamic court
Sayed Ahmad Gailani, the leader of NIFA, while deploring the killing fold Voice of America that the massacre could not be the result of a personal feud between individuals.
The US State Department deplored the massacre. The media coverage of the incident was extensive. The reason for this special interest was the scale of the tragedy and the time at which it happened.
Jami'at's way of handling the incident is also interesting. So far there is no news of military action against the culprits. Taking military actions against Sayyed Jamal is within the means of Jami'at, which is a leading force in the area. Masood certainly is under great pressure from his Mujahideen and the relatives of those killed to take action against those responsible. But Masood has a history of tolerance and diversion of attention from petty issues to the main issues. The major problem for him is the fight against the communist regime.
Jami'at headquarters in Peshawar abandoned its traditional policy of playing down the differences between Mujahideen by public condemnation of the massacre. The reason according to the press release of Jami’at is the scale of the tragedy and the manner in which it was committed.
Jami'at knows that such a tragedy could not be hidden in a free society. There were some foreign journalists dose fo the area where the incident took place. They would have come out with die story.
Jami'at thinks that publicizing the dimensions of the tragedy will put pressure on Hezb to stop it from committing further crimes. Public opinion can check the irresponsible behavior of the party which is a candidate fo rule free Afghanistan.
The incident has given the Kabul regime propaganda leverage against the Mujahideen. It is being used to frighten people away from the Mujahideen.
Jami’at proposal to defuse the tension is practical. Those responsible for the unprovoked massacre should be handed over to a body of Ulama to be tried under Islamic law within the country.