Vol 6, No 6	March	15,1990
Hundreds dead in power struggle between
The coup of March 6th organized by the Khalq faction against Najib failed. Both sides suffered heavy casualties in the fighting for power.
The trial of 124 Khalqi officers involved in a previous coop attempt might have triggered the uprising.
The coup was led by ^General SHah Nawaz Tani, the defence minister of the Kabul regime, a politburo member of the ruling party and the leader of the Khalq faction of the PDPA.
General Tani was supported by some units of the army and air force. The presidential palace was bombed by rebel aircraft and fighting for control of the ministry of defence and Bagram air base in the first day of the coup was reported.
Bagram air base, SO kilometers North of Kabul, came under the control of Tani's men at the start of the coup and it was used to bomb military tar-~ gets in Kabul. Both sides made use of aircraft, artillery, tank and rockets against each other.
The news of the coup was disclosed by the Soviet foreign office spokesman soon after fighting started. Immediately after that radio Kabul cut its normal programmes and reported that a coup attempt had taken place. The radio accused Tani and Gulbuddin Hikmatyar of being behind the coup. -
Najib was quick in appointing Mohammad Aslam Watanjar as defence minister and Neyaz Mohammad Pakteen the minister of Interior. These two belongs to the Khalq faction and by their appointment Najib wanted to tell to Khalqis that the coup was the work of a small group and all Khalqi leaders were not involved in it Najib's accusation of Hikmatyar's involvement was designed to frighten the party men so that they should fight against the rebel force and to show the rest of the world that the coup attempt was supported from outside.
The Mujahideen reported heavy fighting around the Ministry of
Defence in Darulaman. Huge explosions also took place in Bagram and the base was bombed by six planes coming; from the North.
The Mujahideen reported firing of SCUD missiles from Mazar in the direction of Kabul, possibly by Najib's supporters.
Immediately after the coup had started, Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, the leader of Hezb Islami, expressed his party's support for General Tani. He said the fall of Najib will pave the road for the establishment of an Islamic government
Hikmatyar has been talking about a coup by the army for sometime. In the summer of last year he even discussed the idea with the AIG but other parties rejected cooperation with one faction
of the PDPA against another. The Afghan News Agency (ANA), created by Hezb a few days before the coup, claimed to be in contact with the rebels against Najib and give exaggerated news about the achievements of Tani's forces. It also reported the fall of Parwan, Kunduz and Zabul provinces and the surrender of Herat division to the Mujahideen. This all proved to be untrue.
Hezb Islami even claimed its Mujahideen were in control of Bagram and Kabul airport and most of the Mujahideen around Kabul were supporting the coup.
The AIG refused to support Tani on the grounds that both Najib and Tani were communists and it (fid not take sides with any of the two factions.
Prof. Rabbani who was in Iran at the time of the coup told the BBC that he supported the AIG position of not supporting any faction. Later he told MIDIA that political support for one faction of the communist party by Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) was a mistake and would have dangerous consequences.
The spokesman of the nine-party alliance based in Tehran also rejected cooperation with the regime.
The coup caused problems for the civilian population .in Kabul. Residential areas were hit by bombs and shells of both factions and a large number of people were killed or wounded. Najib told reporters that less than 100 civilians were killed and about 200 woe wounded but observers think that the casualties woe much higher. The coup took place in winter and a large number of people were forced, to leave their houses for safe areas with out food and warm clothes. Some reached the liberated areas outside the city.
So far the regime has not disclose< casualties among the military personnel which are thought to be very high At least one pro-Najib general is reported dead. Two planes were also shot down but it was not clear to which faction they belonged. TASS has reported from Kabul that at least 500 of Tani's men have either been killed, woundec or captured by Najib forces.
The Soviet Union did not openly favour any side in the conflict but it is certain that it was pleased to see Najib successful. When Kabul airport was opened after the coup, some Soviet transport planes landed bringing supplies as a sign of good will for the victorious Najib.
Preliminary reports of die Mujahideen say that Soviet fighters were sent to bomb Bagram air base but this has not yet been confirmed.
Najib accuse Pakistan of supporting the coup. The Pakistan government
Turn to page ( 2)