AFGHANews Vol 5, No 23, December 1,1989, page ©
From the Diary of Jehad	(Last part)
Economic considerations keep rival groups living in peace
Agriculture is the base of the economy in the valley. Due to shortages of food and high prices, people in the valley have tried to exploit every piece of land. Lack of enough oxen for plowing, the absence of farm equipment and destruction of irrigation channels were the problems the people faced.
The. Reconstruction Committee had distributed some oxen to the farmers and had bought a few tractors to help them. As a result of these efforts the people in the valley had grown part of their yearly food. Cultivation of vegetables has become common, even in those areas where traditionally people did not grow them. When we arrived Paryan our host welcomed us with a plate of locally produced cucumbers. In the past people in Paryan did not grow vegetables of any kind.
With the help of some agricultural experts, a farm was created in Rukha to experiment with growing different types of high-yield crops and vegetables.
The food situation was not very bad. The new harvest had relieved the burden. But high food prices had kept most of the settlers from getting all they needed.
Fighting along the Salang highway worsened the situation, by pushing the prices higher. The Kabul regime was taking measures to prevent free passage of food from the north to the valley.
Cultivation of vegetables had given variety and taste to the food in the valley. The introduction of milk cows and goats had improved the situation further. People had started to grow beans, which are a rich source of protein.
It will be at least several years before Panjshir can produce enough fruit for its people, because most of the fruit trees were either cut by the Soviets or had died due to lack of water during the years of occupation.
A hospital was working in Rukha, with several clinics in other parts of the valley. The defection of, some experienced surgeons and doctors to the Mujahideen had helped the hospital.
By: Muhammad Es'haq
Dr.Walid's role in establishing the hospital has been very important Patients from different areas are admitted in the hospital. The hospital and its clinics are supported by the relief organization in Peshawar. They provide the hospital with medicine, equipment and salary for its personnel. The hospital is housed in a building built by the Russians during the occupation. After repairs it was turned into a hospital. The building has been electrified with petrol generators, and the doctors have a good relationship with the people.
Schools have been opened in the valley. Some experienced educators have taken charge of educational activities. There are some proper school buildings in the valley but the need for expansion of the old buildings and building new ones is felL
Besides primary schools, Madrasas (religious schools) have also opened in the valley. At the moment four madrasas are open, in four regions of the valley, in which students are taught religious subjects. Religious scholars had an indifferent attitude towards politics in the past, but the war has changed their views. From'talking to the administrator of the Madrasas, who is a traditional religious teacher, I understood that he wanted a more systematic education system helped by the Mujahideen organization. In the past, madrasas were supported by private contributions, while schools were run by the government. Repairs of the madrasas in Safidcheer and Rukha, at the expense of the Mujahideen, was under way.
I wanted to attend the Friday prayer in the central mosque in Rukha. The Imam (person who lead the congregation prayer) was Maulawi Mohammad Wazir who has served in this post for more than 30 years. He is about 85 years old. He spent two years in the notorious Pul-i-Chaikhi prison and was released only last year. Standing among the people and listening to recitation of the old Imam made me feel as if I were a schoolboy again, and the country were not at war. A moment later I saw the marks of the bullets in the wall in front of me, which brought me back to the real world.
After a day in Rukha, I decided to go to Gulbahar, a town at the mouth of
the Panjshir valley, to meet some friends and observe the situation there. Five kilometers inside the valley, the Mujahideen have established a check-post, where security men search the buses and trucks, coming to or leaving the valley.
Each person leaving the valley must have a pass letter from his village chief. Those who enter are recognized by the duty officers. This step is necessary to minimize the risk of infiltration by enemy agents.
We were taken to Gulbahar by one of Commander Masootfs intelligence officers. I was surprised by the. long row of newly built shops along both sides of the road. Gulbahar is a junction whore the road to Panjshir joins with the road to Kohistan, Nejrab and Tagab. It is about 15 kilometers from Jabulseraj, through which the famous Salang highway passes.
Before the war, Gulbahar was famous for its fresh air and cold water, and attracted many holiday-makers from the capital, about 60 kilometers away. The famous Gulbahar park is situated at the junction of the Shutul and Panjshir rivers, Gulbahar was also famous for its modem textile mills, which had provided work for thousands of local people. An irrigation channel had been built with the help of the Chinese to irrigate farms and vineyards cm the Shamali plateau.
During the years of occupation, Gulbahar has witnessed intensive fighting between the Mujahideen and Soviet forces. The Soviets had stationed their troops in Gulbahar until they left Afghanistan. After the Soviet with' drawal the town was liberated after the communist forces woe defeated by Jami'at Mujahideen.
The delicious Kabab of Gulbahar cannot be forgotten easily. The sky was clear, the weather was mild and peace prevailed in the town. Trade between Gulbahar and Kohistan district, controlled by Hezb (Hikmatyar), was normal. Problems between Hezb and Jami'at in Takhar had not affected the business between the two sections, separated by the Panjshir river. The local factors and common interests of people emphasize the need for such cooperations and limit the scope of party-agitated misunderstandings.
Turn to page (4)