AFGHANews Vol 6, No 4, February 15,1990, page ©
Who’s who in the Mujahideen
Sufi Mohammad Rasool
Commander Sufi Mohammad Rasool was bom in the village of Hasan Khail in the sub-district of Farzah 53 years ago. His father was a poor farmer. Mohammad Rasool's education consisted of him attending a Mosque school for his primary years, where after he tended his father’s farm tip until the Communist coup of 1978. All accounts of his life up to this junction indicate that Mohammad Rasool was a deeply religious man, who was respected by the local people as a person who always kept his promises. He was given the title of "Sufi" by the people due to his pious life style.
The Communist coup was a turning point in Sufi Rasool's life. His representative in Peshawar recalled that Sufi Rasool had attended a political meeting organized'by the Communists shortly after the coup in 1978, where the Communists insulted Islam. Sufi Rasool strongly expressed reservations against the Communist government and their policies. Sufi Rasool's outspokenness immediately placed his life in danger, forcing him to retreat to the Farzah Valley where he made his initial contact with the Mujahideen. He impressed the local people with the force and power of his personality and was yery successful in dealing and solving the problems of the people which is an essential area which all Commanders must deal with if they are to obtain the respect of the people. Sufi Rasool was particularly successful in this regard.
Sufi Rasool spent two years in the Farzah Valley after which he formed in 1980 the first Mujahideen base in Dara-i-Marghazar located in this valley. This was prompted after a visit to Peshawar where Professor Rabbani authorized him to take command of the sub-districts of Istalif and Farzah. Initially 100 men came under his command, but they were poorly equipped with very old guns. However, he was able to overcome some difficulties by having very good relations with other parties of the Mujahideen, and by being respected by the Supervisory Council's Command, headed by Commander Masood. \
Three significant battles were fought in his first two years of command.
The first involved the seizure of the district administration headquarters of Qarabagh in 1980, which resulted in the capture of 50 enemy soldiers.
The second occurred in 1981 when
Soviet troops attack his command base in Farzah. A fierce battle erupted where 30 of his men were completely surrounded by the enemy who were supplied with tanks and helicopters. The men fought with courage but were all eventually martyred, and were subsequently buried at "Koh-i Shahidan" which translates to "Martyrs Mountain".
The third occurred in 1982 in the village of Hasan Dara. Twenty of Sufi Rasool's men including himself were ambushed by Soviet troops. Only Sufi Rasool and one other man managed to escape while all the others eventually were killed. It is said that during the battle that many bullets seemingly hit the Commander, but fortunately they luckily passed through the loose flaps of his clothes.
Sufi Rasool now bases his command and lives in Istalif, which is a strategic location overlooking the Salang Highway. Due to continuous pressure exerted by Sufi Rasool's men and other Mujahideen, they have forced the regime to build a new road.
Also in 1982, Commander Sufi Rasool and his men were responsible for the Capture of 100 militiamen in the district of Guldara.
hi 1985, Sufi Rasool’s deputy commander, Abdush Shokoor was martyred. .
In 1988, Sufi Rasool visited Panjshir to meet Professor Rabbani, and was appointed as Commander of areas north of Kabul.
Sufi Rasool’s private and family life is high lighted by him having 13 children. However, his brother Mohammad Sharif was captured by the Communist regime of Hafizullah Amin and is now presumed dead.
1
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
If there is only bread and onions, still have a happy face.
Meaning: " Be content with such things as you have."
A warm fire is better than delicious cooked rice.
Meaning: Warmth is more important than food.
■ii	^	/*
Every anguish passes except the anguish of hunger.
Meaning: God wants us to eat and drink but not to overeat, or, we are to eat to live and


not live to eat.
One who doesn't appreciate the apple, won't appreciate the orchard.
Meaning: If we don't appreciate little things, we won't ap-