AFGHANews Vol7, No 4, February 15,1991, page ©
Comment by:
Mohammad Es
■haqj
UN must review aid policy
The UN has a special responsibility to provide emergency assistance to the victims of the recent earthquake and floods in Afghanistan.
In normal circumstances, the UN and other humanitarian organizations give support to' the government of a country which has called for help. But the UN is facing a special problem in Afghanistan. The country / is divided into the liberated areas, controlled by the Mujaihideen, and cities and towns, administered by the Kabul regime.
The Kabul regime is a member of the UN but controls less than 20 percent of the territory and only a fraction of the population. Therefore, provision of assistance through the Kabul regime will not reach the majority of the victims. Most of the people affected by the recent earthquake and floods live in the liberated areas.
Although the UN has had a mandate, since two years ago, to help along the reconstruction of Afghanistan, it has failed to deal systematically with aid distribution in the liberated areas.
The UN reconstruction program, headed until recently by Sadruddin Agha Khan, has been operated from offices opened in cities under control
of the regime. The Mujahideen, who are at war with Kabul, find it difficult to let UN officials cross the line between the two zones for political reasons. The UN had tried to sqlve this issue through agreements with local commanders, by-passing the political parties. This policy prevented creation of a permanent set up to deal with aid distribution in the liberated areas. In dealing with the Mujahideen the UN is facing the same problems it faced two years ago.
The UN and other relief organizations should organize aid distribution in the liberated areas with help of the Mujahideen parties. The UN should use helicopters or parachute down food, medicine and clothes in the affected areas because the roads are closed due to snowfall. The UN officials should not repeat their past approach of using regime territory to bring supplies to the liberated areas, because this will be opposed. At least for the time being the UN agencies should drop the slogan of "use aid to bring people together," because it is considered by the resistance to be lip service to the national reconciliation program of the regime.
Relief bodies continue to help Afghans despite problems
Private relief organizations are still helping needy Afghans, said an official of the Agency Coordinating Body for Afghan Relief (ACBAR), an umbrella group for 62 aid agencies based in Pakistan.
The spokesman said that contrary to rumor, not a single organization had been closed as a result of the Gulf war. He said donors have assured relief organizations that they will provide continued assistance for projects. He admitted , however, that the war had limited some programs for refugees, but said other programs will be implemented as planned.
A UN Official has said that UN food assistance for Afghans is designed to encourage the refugees' return to Afghanistan, BBC reported.
He said that UN gives preference to the reconstruction of Afghanistan, even if it is achieved at the cost of reduced assistance to the refugees.
The Afghan resistance has always distrusted the UN programs run by Operation Salaam. The Mujahideen are afraid that economic aid might be used
paper published hi Kabul reported. He had gone for medical meat* meot to Bast Germany before the
i-s* *
jr
Kanro was a Politburo member J *	'	*	of	com-
Gasaf, This was the first time that
to pressure Afghan refugees to return home before conditions are ripe, while fighting continues.
The manner in which Sadruddin ran Operation Salaam has created a lot of doubts about the. impartiality of the UN.
An International Conference on Afghanistan opened in New York on February 9. Representatives of 25 American and European relief organizations, a delegation of Mujahideen, and UN officials took part on the debate. Commander Anwar represented the Commander’s Council in the seminar!,
The conference discussed ways of helping die refugees and reconstruction of Afghanistan, in addition to the effects of the Gulf war on Afghan issues.
This was the fourth seminar of its kind organized by the New York-based Afghanistan Relief Committee. The seminar drew world attention towards the Afghan issue, which has been pushed into the background by the Gulf conflict
J98&, weeks after the Soviet inva-
this slogan to show their with the presence of Soviets in
The regime ambassador to Moscow hasaieeently met with Boris Yeltsin, the Presides of the Russian federation, to discuss with him die
repotted
It seems that die Kabul regime, worried about the critical tone of Yeltsin about Soviet A%ban Foley, Plod to win his support
Yaftsin had totted about stopping the arms Supply to Kabul in ex-
•••
The UN High commissioner for apes wIS give 4J£