AFGHANews Val 5, No 14, July IS, 1989, page ©
Glimpses into the historical background of
Part (8)
The Islmic Movement in Afghanistan
Breakdown of unity and emergence of "Harakat" as a new party:
The Members of the Islamic Movement faced severe economic problems from the beginning of their migration to Pakistan. The Pakistani Government used to give some assistance to the early refugees. The contact person for receiving the assistance was Eng. Hikmatyar. When his relations with Jami'at grew sour, he would delay the delivery of the assistance and pretend that it was due to administrative hurdles. Prof. Rabbani could not do much to help the situation because Hikmatyar’s relations with the ruling party were strong.
When Jami'at Islami and Hezb Islami were united under Mawlawi Nabi, Prof. Rabbani received some assistance from some Muslim sources out of Pakistan. We saw it as a great opportunity to strengthen the Movement and thought the sum should be used very carefully. Mawlawi Nabi, however, gave some of the money to Hikmatyar to use for military purposes. This action created some misgivings and questions. Firstly , Mawlawi Nabi had not consulted us, the members of the council of the unity. Secondly, we did not know how Hikmatyar would use the money. And thirdly, Hikmatyar was the head of the Cultural Committee. He did not pay much attention to the affairs for which he was responsible but meddled in die military affairs.
Having the above considerations in mind, as well as a scarcity of resources, when Mawlawi Nabi gave instructions that more money be given to Hikmatyar, Mawlawi Fayez. the head of the Financial Committee, objected. He talked to Mawlawi Nabi and argued that if his instructions wop carried out, the treasury would be empty. They would not have enough even to pay the rent for die house in which they had their offices.
T~r\ he situation look a bizarre turn at I this point. The treasurer disap-^ peared with the cash. It was suspected that his disappearance was part of a plot. What raised that suspicion was die fact that he was a Hezb Islami member and Mr. Hikmatyar’s confidant A few days later die building which housed the offices of our unity organization—i.e., Harakat Inqlab Islami—was occupied by a group of youths.
The next day I participated in a
meeting of Jami'at's prominent members in one of Jami'at's offices in Faqirabad. Mawlawi Mohammadi was also present in the meeting. We discussed die issue of the occupation. It was said that the youths had some questions to ask on behalf of unity council members. If their questions were answered satisfactorily, they would end then occupation.
I asked about the identity of those "revolutionary" youth. Only some participants kliew some of than. I asked if any Jami'at young members were among them. The answer was "No." I asked about the leader of that group. The answer was that he was Abdullah, a staunch supporter of Eng. Hikmatyar. I said it was clear that "the revolution" had taken place at the order of Hikmatyar. Our complaint should be directed to Eng. Hikmatyar himself-and not to the youths.
During die meeting we received a message from Eng. Hikmatyar and Qazi Amin that they wanted to talk to us on the issue. We said-we would let them know about the time and. place of the meeting in the future. Everyone agreed with that proposal except Mawlawi Nabi who was insisting that we should have met Hikmatyar and Qazi Amin in that very meeting.
I am not sure if Jami'at and Hezb leadership ever met to discuss the issue. What I know is the fact that, from the time we started contacts with Hezb Islami for unity until unity was formed under Mawlawi Fayez and Mawlawi Nabi's leadership, we were always driven into a comer. The reason was that Hezb always wanted to be the decision maker and to issue orders. It expected us to merely obey. We did not want to . continue such an unfair and frustrating relationship. Thus, we decided to stay away from them for a while. In fact, they themselves drove us away.
As for Mawlawi Nabi, I think he wanted to join one of the two parties which had broken off from the unity. Some others, however, encouraged him to remain as die President of Harakat Inqlab Islami. They argued that those who had broken off were guilty and would soon rejoin. Thus, a third party was created and made the issue of unity among the members of the Islamic Movement more complicated.
Formation of Jabha Nejat Milli (National Liberation Front):
Earlier I referred to some moves
by some prominent Afghan personalities—including Prof. Rabbani--to form a broad national front to strive for liberation of the country. The aim was to bring together various individuals and parties in order tp organize and unite their forces for a liberation of Afghanistan from Russian domination. The parties could have their independence in matters other than Jihad.
Some meetings had taken place in the holy city of Mecca, Saudi Arabia. As I understood. Prof. Rabbani and Sebghatullah Mujaddidi had been assigned to work for the formation of die front Thus, Mr. Mujaddidi came to Peshawar.
Prof. Rabbani and Mr. Mujaddidi began the work together. They were able to win the cooperation of a large number of Afghan refugees from various regions and ethnic groups. Jami'at Islami coordinated its activities with the National Liberation Front Hezb Islami of Hekmatyar, Harakat of Mawlawi Nabi and Sayed Ahmad Gailani woe also invited to cooperate with die front The invitations, however, was rejected. Thus, Jami'at became the backbone of Jabha (the Front). Most of the Jabha workers, especially the heads of various committees, were Jami'at members.
Jabha held numerous meetings and invited prominent personalities. A large number of influencial people in the parties and tribes participated in those meetings. The topic under discussion was the method of carrying out a struggle against the communists. Two points of view emerged from the discussions:
(1) Launching a comprehensive struggle by all strata of the people in all die cities and regions in order to demoralize the military and to scatter the puppet regime's efforts. Hie majority of the participants in the meetings held this point of view.
(2) Guerrilla activities and acts of self-sacrifice to the extedt possible. Eng. Hikmatyar and Qazi Amin—who participated in the meetings despite their refusal to work with Jabha—were of this view- Mazharuddin Shaivan of Jami'at also preferred this point of view.
The arguments in favor of the second viewpoint was that the first method would lead to a lot of kilting and injury, and would create problems beyond our capability to handle.
Turn to page (7)