AFGHANews Vol 6, No 2, January 15,1990, page ©
Widened rift between Khalq, Parcham factions reported
Prof. Mohammad Qasem Jamdar reveals that differences between Khalq and Parcham factions of PDPA has intensified after the arrest of 127 high ranking officers belonging to Khalq faction. This occurred after an alleged coupdgainst Najibullah.
Prof. Jamdar and three other officers who belong to the Khalq faction have recently defected to the National Islamic Front of Afghanistan (NIFA) Mujahideen group.
Prof. Jamdar was the director of Research in the Ministry of Higher Education of the regime and has a doctorate from the Moscow Energy Institute. He said following the arrest of Khalqi officers, tension between General Tani, the Defense Minister of regime, and Dr. Najibullah increased to such an extent that the Soviet Union sent a high-ranking delegation to Kabul to mediate between the two.
This meeting was held in the Soviet embassy in Kabul. General Tani asked for the immediate release of Khalqi officers which was accepted. Other demands of General Tani included the appointment of military officers through the Ministry of Defense, bringing all the militia forces under the command of the ministry of defense and equal share in appointment of military and civilian officers for Khalq and Parcham factions. These demands were not accepted.
Prof. Qasem said that some of those arrested were high-ranking officers. Dr. Najib appointed new men in their place.
The Kabul regime earlier had reported the discovery of a plot against it. It accused Hezb (Hikmatyar) for the plot. When Professor Jamdar was asked about Hezb's involvement in the alleged coup, he said there was no evidence linking the Hezb to the coup.
Prof. Qasem stated that 5 to 7,000 "Jawzjani militias" Have been assigned to defend Kabul. This force was created by Najib and operates under the command of KHAD. He confirmed reports of kidnapping and looting by these militias. He said they had kidnapped 13 women from Qalacha area and looted Koochi Market and Saray-i-Shahzada in the heart of the city.
Abdul Malik Jamdar, son of Prof. Jamdar was an officer of the SCUD missiles launch sites, told the reporters that 20 Soviet advisors are helping to fire SCUD missiles, SCUD is a medium-range missile which carries a warhead of 2000 pounds.
Malik said the Soviet advisors work under Major Kolia and are lodged in the Soviet embassy in Kabul. The Soviet advisors wear Afghan uniforms and travel in cars with Afghan licence plates.
Captain Malik is a graduate of Police Academy in Leningrad, disclosed that the Soviets have given 13 SCUD launchers to the regime. Five of these are in Mazar-i-Sharif and eight in Kabul. Four launchers in Kabul are used by KHAD and four others by the Defense Ministry of the regime.
Regime's crumbling economy
The Kabul regime is facing an economic crisis which has made life for the ordinary people difficult
AFP reports from Kabul that the exchange rate of foreign currencies are rocketing every day.
Each American dollar is exchanged in the free market of Kabul 525 Afghani, while the official rate is 125 Afs. Compared to last years' rate it shows a 100% increase.
Regime Prime Minister, Sultan Ali Keshtmand, has blamed the Mujahideen and their allies for the bad economic situation. He has said that his government is a target of economic sabotage of the Mujahideen and their supporters.
Statistics provided by the regime shows a sharp fall in exports during the current year. Kabul imported $373 million of goods in the first six months of 1989, while its exports during the same period reached only $104.9 million.
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
Don't stop a donkey that is not yours.
Meaning: Mind your own business.
cajSli <il

J «	U
There are twenty-five uncaught sparrows for one penny.
Meaning: A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush, or wishes area dime a dozen.
Ij	jli
A Porcupine speaking to its baby says, ” O my child of velvet."
Meaning: One's own child is especially dear to him.
<$$** 42 M Community is not created by force.
•V.ViVlWSJ.SV
" The riding one should greet th# persons,”