V.ol 8, No 13	July	1,1992
Ustaz Rabbani is new leader of Islamic State
Based on the Peshawar groups would have joined the govern- attend the mcciing of ihe Jehadi agreement, the head of the menu Hczb Wahdat was offered three Council and decide about leadership of Jehadi Council, Prof, cabinet posts, including the ministry of the country. Since the move was a clear Mujaddidi formally handed national security, one post in the violation of the Peshawar accord and over power to the chairman of Leadership Council and eight scats in had no legal basis, Jami'al did not allow
i:he Leadership Council, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, on June 28, defusing a crisis which could have destabilized the country.
In a ceremony held in the presidential palace in Kabul, Prof. Mjjjaddidi handed over power to Prof. Rabbani. Members of the Jehadi and Leadership Councils and some diplomats watched the ceremony.
Speaking on the occasion. Prof. Rabbani thanked the leadership council for their trust and asked their cooperation in carrying out his extremely difficult task. He said: "Giving me this post to me is not a privilege but a huge responsibility".
Prof. Mujaddidi read out a prepared text in which he highlighted his achievements in the two months in office. His speech was critical of some Mujahideen panics and leaders, especially Jami'al and Defence Minister Ahmad Shah Masood. He complained that Masood did not cooperate with him fully.
He had initiated some clever political moves airbed at finding new allies to support him in his effort to prolong his office term. He promoted a large number of army officers. Mujahideen commanders and some civilians to the rank of general. If Mujaddidi's tenure had been extended, Afghanistan would have had more generals than any country in the world.
Another initiative by Mujaddidi was signing an agreement with the National Islamic Movement, headed by General Dostum and Hczb Wahdat, a Shia party, based on which the .two*
the Jehadi Council. One ministerial post and five seals in the Jehadi Council were offered to the National Islamic Movement. Mujaddidi signed this agreement without consulting other Mujahideen leaders.
The Jehadi Council was formed in Peshawar to help the transfer of power from the communist regime to the Mujahideen. It has 51 members, five from each party. _
The campaign launched by Mujaddidi to remain in power began one week after reaching Kabul. He told journalists that two months is a short time and people were demanding that his office term be extended. The closer Mujaddidi came to the end of his tenure, the more active he grew in taking practical steps to remain in power.
He accused the Leadership Council of violating the Peshawar accord and said that he was not obliged to observe it. He convened meetings of his supporters from different parts of Afghanistan who called for prolongation of his office term.
Although all other Mujahideen leaders were in favor of implementation of the Peshawar accord, Mujaddidi considered Jami'at and Commander Masood as the main obstacles on his' way.
This was the reason behind a propaganda campaign launched by Mujaddidi against Jami'at and Masood . He used mosques, TV and radio to air his criticisms. His speeches were 'so provocative that the authorities in radio and TV omitted some Rails.
In his last days in office, Mujaddidi demanded that TV and radio broadcast a statement calling for five representatives from each province to
it to be broadcast. This provoked Mujaddidi to accuse Jami'at of using radio and TV to promote its political objectives.
Hczb Islami played a double-edged game in regard to Mujaddidi's campaign for prolongation of his office term. Hczb publicly criticized Mujaddidi for not observing the Peshawar accord but privately sent delegations to him and some other leaders expressing its readiness to accept prolongation of his office term for a limited period of time. It seems that Hczb wanted to exploited the crisis created by refusal of Mujaddidi to transfer power on time.
But the farsightedness of other Mujahideen leaders did not allow the Hc/.b’s trick to work. All leaders, including Pir Gailani and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, who were considered natural allies of Mujaddidi, advised him to. abide by d\c agreement and transfer power to Prof. Rabbani.
After the transfer of power. Prof. Sayyaf, who had relumed from his base in Paghman to Kabul, described the event as significant and briefed journalists about the second phase of the interim government. He expressed support to Prof. Rabbani. Answering a question, he said that Farid, the prime minister designated by Hczb, did not have the authority to change cabinet ministers because the present government has been created by the agreement of the Mujahideen parties.	.
Sayyaf rejected allegations leveled by Mujaddidi that he was responsible for initiating war against Hczb Wahdat and he was preparing for another round of confrontation.