AFGHANews Vol 8, No 6, March 15,1992, page ®
Editorial
Time ripe for decisive attacks
The end of Winter and eruption of internal disputes between Najib and his militia forces in the north of Afghanistan has' provided a good opportunity for the Mujahideen to launch offensive attacks against the Soviet-installed Kabul regime.
The effect, of arms cut, from January of 1992, has begun to weaken the Kabul regime's war machine. Despite violations of the Moscow agreement, reached between the Mujahideen and former Soviet Union, by some of the Central Asian republics, arms embargo has started to weaken the will and fighting capability of the regime troops.
The most critical development, however, is tension between the regime and militia forces of Dostum and Kayan in an extremely sensitive area. The crises which began two months ago is deepening by the passage of time.
The affect of the crises in the north is felt in Kabul and the rest of Afghanistan in the form of ever-increasing prices of essential commodities. Attacks by the Mujahideen, heavy snow and confrontation between the regime and its militiamen have disrupted the flow of traffic on Salang road which connects Kabul to Central Asia.
Last year, the Mujahideen won several significant victories in Khost, Takhar and Badakhshan. They also defended their territories west of Kabul and in Zindajan, Herat, against the massive attacks launched by the Kabul regime. These victories became possible because of a degree of cooperation among the local Mujahideen forces.
In the view of regime problems caused by internal disputes and cutting of supplies from outside, the Mujahideen have a better chance to win significant victories in the months ahead. The recent victories of the Mujahideen belong to all resistance parties in Balkh, Samangan, Jawzjan and Kunduz show that the situation is turning in their favor.
Ahmad Shah Masood whose forces are leading the recent operations in the north has proposed formation of a council involving all the Mujahideen parties in the area to coordinate military activities and deal with local political issues.
Escalation of war between the Mujahideen and communist forces might be interpreted as an attempt by the Mujahideen to undermine the UN efforts to find a political solution to the problem. The UN and and other foreign countries might persuade the Mujahideen to stop launching offensive operations against the Kabul regime. The Mujahideen should do what suits them and should not bow underpressures.
Jami'at believe that victories in the batdefields brighten the prospect for a just peace. If the Kabul regime realize that it cannot stand the Mujahideen anymore, it will be ready to make concessions. Therefor, escalation of war is not a bad news for the political efforts to find a peaceful solution* to the Afghan problem.
Arms cut to the Mujahideen has given them a good chance to take their destiny in their own hands. They can choose their targets and time as they suit them. The effect of shortages of supplies could be minimized by coordination and careful planning.
One of the problems that the Mujahideen leaders faced after the Soviet troops withdrawal was the amount time and energy they spent on formation of interim government and other political efforts at the expense of less attention to the requirement of the battlefields. The Mujahideen leaders should avoid committing the same mistake twice. If they waste this year in political debates, they will never be able to make for it.
Jehad has entered a critical phase. It requires urgent attention of the leaders of the. Mujahideen. Lack of progress in the battlefield prolongs the life of the illegal regime of Kabul.
Jami'at trades prisoners with Kabul regime
Two regime men were exchanged with six Mujahideen prisoners in a deal between Afzali Fronts of Jami'at in Herat and the Kabul regime. The exchange took place in Jihreel village, Enjeel District, on March 6.
The Mujahideen prisoners who were kept in Pul-i-Charkhi notorious prison in Kabul were: Mohammad Arrian, Nisar Ahamad and Mohammad Mia from Afzali Fronts, Abdul Aziz Pouran from Email of Ismail Khan, Mohammad Younus from NIFA and Nasir Shairzad from Hezbullah, a Shia party. The two prisoners released by the Mujahideen belonged to the secret police of the regime. The Mujahideen had captured 76 regime armed men from Herat-Torghundi road two months ago. Fifteen of them were members of the regime secret police and the rest belonged to army of the regime.
The office of Afzali Fronts in Peshawar reported that negotiation for exchange of other prisoners were in progress.
Exchanges of prisoners at die local level, involving regime and almost all the Mujahideen groups, are practiced all over Afghanistan.
Afzali • Fronts struck a (teal with Soviets some months ago in which the Soviets agreed to secure the release of 25 Mujahideen prisoners for the release of one Soviet prisoner of war. When the Mujahideen released the Soviet prisoner, Kabul released only 18 Mujahideen prisoners. Regime refuses to release the remaining prisoners on the ground that they could not be traced. Prisoners recently released from Pul-i-Charkhi jail say that they saw those prisoners whom the Mujahideen have demanded their release.
Embassy remains closed
Peter Tomsen, the US special envoy to the- Mujahideen, has rejected the Kabul regime's claim that US was preparing to open its embassy in Kabul.
He also rejected Hikmatyars allegation that the US was providing aid to the Kabul regime to prevent formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.