AFGHANews Vol 8, No 16, August 15, 1992, page ©
better
to the
'Editor

■U
Dear editor,
1 congratulate you on the victory of the Islamic revolution. I received the first issue of AFGHANews published from Kabul. I wish your success.
Please appoint somebody to send us information about developments in Afghanistan.
Nasir Ahmad Noor
Mecca-Saudi Arabia.
x
Dear editor,
I congratulate you on the victory of the Islamic revolution. I was extremely pleased when I received the recent issue of AFGHANews from Kabul.
Afghans living in Australia cannot contact their relatives through telephone. The union of Afghan refugees has asked the Australian government to give a satellite dish to Afghanistan so that the Afghan community in Australia can establish telephone links with their relatives. We are in jdire need of information. We like to receive papers such as AFGHANews, Kabul Times and Mujahid.
Some Afghans are' interested in returning to Afghanistan to play a role in the reconstruction of their country. If your publication is sent to them regularly, they will know what their role could be.
Mahmoud Saiqal
Sydney-Australia
Dear editor.
We gladly received AFGHANews today. It is a great pleasure for us to receive your well-reputed AFGHANews, posted this time not from Pakistan but from your liberated capital Kabul; for which hundreds and thousands of Afghan Mujahideen sacrificed their lives heroically. It is fact that AFGHANews played a positive role in the war and it is hoped that it will continue to serve in nation-building. .
We, the ARAKAN Mujahideen have a strong feeling for. the people of Afghanistan.
We pray to Allah Almighty for the people of Afghanistan and for their prosperity and solidarity.
Long life,Afghan Mujahideen
Long life, Islamic Afghan government
Shabbir Husain
Chittagong - Bangladesh
Dear editor,
I must thank you for answering my questions in April. I had a good time in Peshawar. I met a lot of people, got a lot of answers and found a lot of interesting documents, reports and books. I have been busy writing a book on Afghanistan which covers different aspects of life of Afghans after many years of Jehad.. To be able to finish this book, we (he and his wife) have decided to come to Kabul. We must see Afghanistan after the war is over. We will arrive in Kabul on 10th of August and hope to see you there.
We also intend to write articles for Dagens Nyheter, the biggest Swedish morning daily! Many questions are being asked about the situation in Afghanistan. What we get from news agencies are sketchy reports about fighting between Mujahideen groups and new rules for women. I got AFGHANews which was very interesting. A cameraman from the Swedish Television will also accompany us. We want to interview ‘ Ahmad Shah Masood.
Anders Sundelin
Bandhagen - Sweden
The peaceful transfer of power from Prof. Mujaddidi to President Rabbani was a good news. I was extremely pleased to received the 11th and 12th issues of AFGHANews published in Kabul and made several copies and distributed them in mosques and posted them to interested people. The paper provided answer to rumors spread by members of.Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar and supporters of Qazi Husain Ahmad, the leader of Jamaat Islami of Pakistan, against the Islamic government in Afghanistan.
Diplomats in the Afghan embassies should be selected from among the people who are sympathetic to Jehad. Until then, the offices of Mujahideen in various countries should work to combat the wave of propaganda against the Islamic Sate of Afghanistan. To be able to do ,this job effectively, these offices would be provided with information about development in Afghanistan regularly.
Nazar Mohammad Maaf
Philadelphia - USA
The repair work to the drinking water supply system of Pul-i-Khumri Baghlan Province, was completed an July 26.	i:!!'
It will prov^ drinking water to more than 800 houses ip P&M* Khumrl The supply system was dam i: !•	=.!
: /■. jmhT
Bendn" Sevian, the former UN special envoy for Afghanistan* has been appointed as the undersecretary general for political affairs, the United Nations announced on July 21. .
Sevan, who is from Cyprus, re-
Ghaldm Ghous Nasiri, a forme police officer, has been appointed the commander
•."'•'He .sras^given this lillM Commander Abtjui Haq resigned from this post Abdul Haq whs ap-pchnt^d co^rhiancter of police imme-
his resptms^ilkyi!;4:
Mohammad Aman, an uncle of Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood, was murdered by unknown men at his home in Kabul on July 5. Hewas an; m |	; ;o|f	•
i .There!:;
!||g^
iiis! elder bi||her: • Colonel ; Deed : was kidnapped from Pe^iawar on June 2, 1988. He! ?$ still pissing. 1^;fi<teapping also Was motivated ^ phli^ reasons.
Seven Afglum men, women and ijh&dren, front;-two refugee frumlies.
The	had.	ip-;
to the seaside to spend their weekend |The victims were aged between 13 |and 38. This was the most tragic incident of its type in Australia m the past 50 years.