 AFGKAH NEWS
VOL. II
 no. 11
j1-6-1936

•-Srk-
              Commander Ghoryani was a student in. the faculty of literature of Kabul University before he joined the resistance in 1930. He has been
  active inside Herat city and has participated in more than one hundred...........'
 _jcoggsrfdcrrK3--6.gsi-ant..Jf^^          haixr-puppets.    He has been captured
twice by the enemy forces but was able to brealr_ou±_£roajiaiiX-^nd.-en'Cape.
   The first time, he was captured on the 11 I larch 1973, He end 60 other prisoners escaped from the prison by digging a tunnel 0-3 meters long. Digging the tunnel took 36 nights using Knifes and iron spickes which
  were smuggled to then by their relatives. That time he was in jail.........for
  6 months.
     rj*<=--         ■-oc.iu-thct-tbce—s-econd time he had a meeting with soite
  informers. These men betrayed hiEu--The—<aaa±Jx-ben*ence--was,-peissed oh him
 by a.Special Revolutionary'■'Court. Only Gabrak's signature was needed for
  the.execution of the order. He and his friends made a hole in' the ceil-
  ing of the prison and jumped off the roof- joining -Mu jahideen who were
 •-nosiitijoaed-only—one_kii.ome1?er-- from. - the* jail.
                                  «*
     Then he -was ached about latest situation in Herat he said that the
  llujahideen.. there.are..doing quite well. Ghulaa Kasool a militia .commander., ■
  was hilled a few v/esks ago.                           jxrcdex regiment--of the
  puppet, regime was also hilled recently.
     He added that the enemy policy—art—hhe. nowerrfc .Is^-heavy-aerial .-aad.gro- -• und.bo^barArients-jof'"the _yilinger,-^/jhich aims to. destroy-their means of living and drive the.peoole out of their country.
     Concerning Soviet bases xn the area, the commander said that the Gov-' iets had two main bases there, namely Ghindand and Ilir Dawood. He mentioned that the Soviets were making extensive use of SU planes against I-Mujahideen. The commander has scan some very long rockets on long vehicles but does not know their name or other specifications. The commander hopes ■ that' the Iraq-Iran war will soon come to an end because it has ..'drawn the .attention of Iran from the serious problem on its eastern border .
     About Soviet plans in the area, the Commander said the formation of militia units and the blocking of supply routes of llujahideen are their ^priorities. The commander was asked if he had any proposition for the leaders of the parties and he replied i; they must be united;j. About the problems for the llujahideen. he complained of the laclc of enough weapons and ammunition. He aaid that they do not even have mine detectors fo clear the mine fields which the Soviets have planted inside the villa-ges. This is why Mujahideen and so many people are killed or,maimed . He added that in Hhad of Herat, Soviet advisors are interrogating prisoners. According to another prisoner,, the enemy has now built an under ground §
 orison in Herat which is. .30 stems below the surface of the ground.. Ho “ *
  sun-light reaches the prisoners,
  Commander Ghoryani belongs to Jamiat Is1ami Afghanistan^and works closely under commander Esmaeil Khan.
                                                                                                      *