AFGHANews Vol 6, No 3, February 1,1990, page
From the Dairy of Jehad
By: Abdul Hafiz
A short walk around Kabul after the Soviet withdrawal
On the 20th of November, myself and Abdul Ghafar, a resident of Herat who has been working in the Education Committee of the Supervisory Council for one and a half years, started our journey from Panjshir to Pakistan. A truck made in East Germany and captured by the Mujahideen from the Russians took us to die town of Gulbahar at the mouth of the Panjshir Valley.
From the Panjshir to Pakistan there are two routes, one through Badakhshan which reaches Chitral and the second around Kabul to Parachinar. We took the second route because die northern route was very cold.
The bazaar in Gulbahar (a town controlled by Jami'at) was flourishing with goods and the people from Panjshir and other districts used the bazaar to purchase their needed items.
The Salang highway had just opened after a twenty day blockage by the Mujahideen in North Salang. As a result of recent fighting, the regime lost a large number of trucks. They retaliated by destroying a considerable number of houses resulting in the forced evacuation of several hundred people to take up refugee status in neighboring valleys.
In addition, the blockage of the Salang highway caused the prices of food and fuel to rise considerably, for example die price of fuel oil tripled and a seven kilogram bag of wheat was commonly being sold for 2000 Afs, which is two times higher than prior to the blockage.
After a tea break, we walked to the village of Totom Dara at the mouth of the Ghorband Valley and situated close to the Red Fort which is a regime base at the mouth of the Ghorband and Salang Valleys over looking Shamali Plateau.
Historians say that Alexander the Great had used the same area as a base for his troops before attacking the North through the Panjshir valley.
The Jami'at commander in Totom Dara is Abdul Wakil. He is Commander Hukum's brother who was martyred some time ago. Wakil is a tall man and with a long beard. He cannot read and write but has mastered the art of dealing with people through practical experience.
In Totom Dara, despite being close to the enemy base and die Salang highway, the Mujahideen have opened schools for the children. The voice of children singing revolutionary songs can be over heard by the enemy posts along the toad side.
A famous martyr from this area was Hukum Khan who was well known for his courage. He had many scars on his body which were the result of wounds inflicted by the enemy on him. The story of his death is interesting. He was crossing the road on a horse when the enemy fired at him with a machine-gun from a close distance. He was killed and his horse was wounded, but the horse took Hukum Khan's body which was hanging from the saddle to a Mujahideen controlled area.
In the evening we were taken to the area controlled by Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar). The commander of the area was Sher Aaqa who succeeded Abdul Wahid. Wahid was killed in an incident of sabotage some months ago. The rumor was that rivals in his own party killed him. Wahid was famous for his good relations with the Mujahideen from other parties.
A local commander showed us a letter signed by General Baigi, the commander of the regime's forces in Parwan and Kapisa. He had urged the Mujahideen to join the national reconciliation in return for money and other benefits.
The next day we entered Bagram which is controlled by Jami'at. The people in Bagram were living in relative peace. The abandoned district head-quarters of the regime is now used as the Mujahideen offices. The largest regime air base is situated in Bagram district. The local people spoke fondly of Commander Shafaq who was killed last year.
To ensure a safe passage to Kabul, the regime has built a new road connecting Bagram air base to Khawja Rawash air base in Kabul. The road passes through inhabited areas. Local elders said that the new road follows a. track used by the people in the past to walk to Kabul. The route passed through the famous area called Dasht-i-Qala-Haji Sahib.
After the regime built the new road, the old road which passed through Shakar Dara was blocked. Now the peo-
ple in Kohdaman are facing tremendous shortages in essential commodities due to road blockage.
Kohdaman include Istalif, Qarabagh, Shakar Dara and the surrounding areas. The people of this area captured Kabul and installed the Second Habibullah in King Ammanuillah's place when the later antagonized the people by his alien reforms.
Prices of food in Kohdaman after the road blockage increased considerably and the harvested grapes which is the main source of income for the local people were not sold in Kabul resulting in great economic problems for the local people.
We crossed the road to enter Qarabagh. We passed close to the regime posts and they did not disturbed us. It seemed that if the Mujahideen did not attack the regime troops they would not bother the Mujahideen.
In Qrabagh, Hezb Islami, Jami'at and Ittihad have strong influence. Relations between Hezb and Jami'at were not friendly. Local dignitaries were trying to solve the differences among them.
The regime contrails the district headquarters of Qarabagh. We passed close to the regime positions on our way to Istalif sub-district We spent one night in Istalif which is famous for its natural beauty.
Before the war Istalif was a picnic place for the people of Kabul and a tourist spot The blue pottery of Istalif and its fur coats were attractive to visitors, in addition to its delicious fruits and friendly people.
Last year I did not see any pottery in the Istalif bazaar, but now the people have resumed this traditional business. Jami'at is in control of Istalif and the people there live in peace. Sufi Muhammad Rasool from Jami'at has his base in Istalif.
The government has a symbolic presence in Istalif but it does not have anything to do with the people. The Mujahideen have tolerated the presence of an enemy out post in return for free passage of food and other essential goods from the regime controlled areas. The bazaar in Istalif provides goods not only to the local people but to all the Kohdaman area.
On the 23rd of November, we ar-