AFGHANews Vol 5, No 23, December 1,1989, page 0
Obituaries
Abdul Basir Karimi
Abdul Basir Karimi was born 38 years ago in Jainal Agha town, Kohistan- district of kapisa province.
After completing primary school in Kohistan he continued his studies in Kabul and in Delhi in the field of post communication.
He worked in the ministry of post and communication for eight years. He joined Commander Masood in 1981
Ghulam Rasool, son of Khuda Dost, was bom in Abdullah Khail village of Dara sub-district in Panjshir 40 years ago. He studied primary school in Dara and chose to become a farmer.
When he was working as the caretaker of a building in Kabul, the communist coup took place. He started to cooperate with the Mujahideen urban
Ghulam Muhammad, son of Muhammad Nadir, was bom 25 years ago in Rukha town of Panjshir.
His family transferred to Kabul, and Ghulam Muhammad entered Amani high-school. When the communist coup took place, he started to cooperate with the urban cells of the Mujahideen affiliated to Jami'at
In 1982, he was arrested and was sentenced to two years in prison. After he was released he came to Peshawar for medical treatment. After a while he went inside and was assigned as the cameraman of the Supervisory Council.
Because of this job, the
Commander Muhammad Rasool was bom in Khawak village in the upper part of Panjshir 34 years ago. He went to the local Mosque school to learn the basics of Islam. He could not go to school because there was no school in the area where he lived.
He lived by farming and keeping
Tajuddin s/o Maulwi Fakhruddin was bom in Tarisht village of Worsaj 36 years ago.
After completing the ninth grade in Taloqan, he went to the military school in Kabul in 1975. He became a Lieutenant and was posted in Jalalabad.
He joined the Mujahideen after the communist coup of 1978. He had par-
and worked for three years id Shamali area.
In 1984, he came to Peshawar and worked in the Kapisa provincial office of Jami'at. He was appointed as die financial head of the logistics cell of the ■Supervisory Council last year.
He was killed in Gann Cheshma explosion while he was leading congregation prayers. He has left behind six
cells. He was arrested and was sentenced to five years in prison. When he was released, he went to Panjshir and worked as the communications officer of the Mujahideen in Dara valley.
Ghulam Rasool was transferred to Chitral to help in logistic operations last Spring. He was killed in the Garm Cheshma blast.
Mujahideen started to Call him "Journalist" instead of calling him by his name. After some time he was transferred to the wireless communication section, and last spring came to Pakistan with his wireless set to help the logistics operation.
Ghulam Muhammad was an extremely sociable person and had earned the admiration of a lot of people.
Some days before he was killed, he sent a message to Masood informing him that his team had finished their work and were returning.
He could not make the trip because he was martyred in the explosion of November 15 in Garm Cheshma.
animals. At age of 24, he joined the first group of Mujahideen. He served as the commander of Safidcheer for two years. At the beginning of the current year, he was transferred to the logistics branch of the Supervisory Council.
He was martyred in the Garm Cheshma explosion.
ticipated in fighting against the communist regime in Worsaj, Faikhar and in Taloqan in 1979.
When die Supervisory Council formed die Mamie army, Tajuddin became involved. He was appointed a member of die logistics cell recenly -and was killed in the blast of November 15.
Eng. Abdullah
Engineer Abdullah s/o Muhammad EsTiaq was bom in Kabul. He graduated from the Faculty of Engineering of Kabul University in 1983.
He started to work in the ministry of water and power. He became an antiregime activist and was arrested and sentenced to 16 years in jail. After four years he was released. He came to Pakistan in 1988, and joined the Reconstruction Committee of the Supervisory Council. He was on his way to Afghanistan to build the first power plant in the liberated areas controlled by the Supervisory Council, when he fell victim to the Garm Cheshma explosion and was martyred.
Eng. Jan Mohammad
Engineer Jan Mohammad Durani s/o Noor Muhammad was born 30 years ago in Kabul.
After graduating from military high school,'he entered Polytechnic College, of Kabul University. After graduation in 1985, he started to work in the Ministry of the Defense of the regime. In 1988 he came to Peshawar and joined the Reconstruction Committee of the Supervisory Council. He was martyred in the Garm Cheshma incident.
Abdul Qayum
Abdul Qayum s/o Muhammad Seddiq was bom 25 years ago in Bazrak town of Panjshir. After high school he studied Kabul Technical school and became a water pump mechanic.
He was part of the team of the Reconstruction Committee of the Supervisory Council's engineers when he was killed in Garm Cheshma on November 15.
Nasrullah
Nasrullah s/o Ghulam Hazrat was bom in Bazarak 24 years ago. He studied secondary school in Malaspa and became a mujahid in 1983.
He was working as the cameraman of the Reconstruction Committee team. He was killed in Garm Cheshma blast.
The 31 refugees who were killed in the Chitral explosion are buried in Garm Cheshma
sons.
Ghulam Rasool
Ghulam Muhammad
Comer. Muhammad Rasool
Zabet Tajuddin