				 AFGHANews Vol 5, No 18 & 19, October 1,1989, page @		
News ♦♦ if From the battlefields		on fire and six jets were destroyed. On September 7, a regime ammunition dump caught fire and burned for four days. An estimated 350 enemy soldiers and officers were either killed or wounded. A workshop and one of the runways of the base were also damaged. In fighting against Shindand town, 30 militiamen were killed and wounded. The enemy launched aerial and ground attacks against the Mujahideen which killed 50 civilians and 16 Mujahideen, and injured 30 Mujahideen. Reinforcements reached the enemy from Herat The Mujahideen ambushed the convoy, destroying eight trucks and armored cars. Shindand base is one of the major air base in Afghanistan. It is about 200 kilometers from the Soviet border. A large number of the Kabul regime's fighter planes are stationed there. The latest report says the regime forces may have recaptured the town of Shindand after heavy aerial bombing of the area. Kabul province To block the Kabul -Jalalabad road, Mujahideen from Jami'at, NIFA and Hezb-e-Islami (Khalis) launched an attack in the Dirgaw area, capturing seven security posts on September 24. On the same day. Mujahideen from Jami'at captured four posts near Zabailay bridge, bringing a section of the road under their control. They mined the road to block it from enemy use. About 1000 Mujahideen participat: ed in this operation. On September 25, the Mujahideen captured eight more posts along the road, and fighting for the elimination of the rest of the enemy posts continued. The Mujahideen have captured ten tanks and armored cars in working condition. Mujahideen who monitor enemy communication say that Soviets are involved in aerial bombings. So far 30 enemy soldiers have been captured and 45 soldiers killed On September 26, the enemy abandoned the Dado post after three days of fighting. The recreating enemy was ambushed. Thirty soldiers were killed, one truck was destroyed and five armed soldiers were captured. NIFA and Mujahideen from Prof. Sayyafs party also participated in this operation. The operation along the Kabul- Tumtopage( 3 )
Parwan province Mujahideen from Jami'at launched a. coordinated attack on the enemy positions in Salang, Jabul Seraj, Puli-Matak, Charikar and Bagram air base on September 11. Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan, and Bagram air base were bombarded with heavy weapons, which prevented regime aircraft from using the airport that day. No details of enemy casualties in Bagram and Charikar were available when the report was filed. Mujahideen from Gulbahar and Jabul Seraj attacked posts of Moalim Fatah, a militia commander, in Jabul Seraj, but due to a mine explosion in which eight Mujahideen were injured, the attack did not succeed. On the same day a regime convoy attempting to pass Salang was attacked by the Mujahideen. Nineteen tanks and trucks were set on fire. The people in Shamali could see the column of smoke from the burning vehicles. An unknown number of soldiers were killed. After capturing seven mountain top posts in Salang valley, the army centers in Haft Tanoor and Olang were also captured. After four hours of fighting, the Mujahideen had to retreat, due to shortages of ammunition and arrival of a big farce from North Salang. The Mujahideen had captured 14 heavy tanks, 17 D-30 guns, two BM-14 truck-mounted rocket launchers and one BM-12 (40-barrel rocket launcher). Since the Mujahideen could not remove these weapons, they set them on fire along with the headquarters of the enemy. In Haft Tanoor, 55 enemy soldiers and officers were captured and 14 officers and 20 soldiers were killed . The Mujahideen captured 50 Kalashnikov rifles. The Mujahideen lost six men and five were injured. Haft Tanoor was	the headquarters of the 64th Battalion of the 18th division. On September 12, the enemy convoy trying to pass Salang was attacked by the Mujahideen in Totom Dara, north of Charikar. Two trucks and one tank were destroyed. Mujahideen kept pounding enemy positions in Jabul Seraj, Charikar and Bagram for the second day. On September 13, Mujahideen heavy weapons hit enemy bases in Jabul Seraj, Qala-i-Surkh, Charikar and Bagram. Qala-i-Surkh caught fire three times and burned for four hours. The Salang road was closed as a result of these operations. The above operation is part of the plan of the Supervisory Council of the North. According to Masood, due to insufficient resources the operations will have limited objectives and will be escalated gradually. Masood has described the initial phase of the operation along the Salang highway as successful. Mujahideen from Jaini'at captured five soldiers, destroyed one tank and seized five guns, one R-105 radio and some ammunition when they attacked an enemy post close to Bagram air base on September 16. Farah province In two weeks of fighting, Mujahideen have inflicted heavy losses on the enemy in Shindand air base and town. The operation, which was led by Jami'at Mujahideen in cooperation with NIFA, started on September 1. The Mujahideen attacked the Soviet-built air base with long-range rockets, causing heavy losses. At the same time the Mujahideen attacked Shindand town, about 15 kilometers away from the air base, which resulted in the liberation of the district at least for a few days. In the attack against the air base, an oil depot and 12 oil tankers were set	