AFGHANews Vol 7, No 16, August 15,1991, page 0
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Cmdr. Azizullah Afzali
Captain Azizullah Afzali, I 42, is the commander of Afzali Front of Jami'at > Islami Afghanistan. He leads about 2800 armed Mujahideen in Ghoryan, Enjeel, Kushk, Adraskan and Guzara Districts in Herat Province.
He has led the front since Safiullah Afzali, his younger brother and founder of the front, was assassinated by Kabul regime agents in Iran in 1986. Safiullah's Mujahideen chose Captain Azizullah as their leader. The choice was endorsed by Jami'at leader Prof. Rabbani.
Azizullah was bom in Qaisan vil-age in Ghoryan District. His father, Mirza Zabiullah was a respected resident of the area. Azizullah completed his primary education in Ghoryan District, his hometown. He completed the Kabul military school before going on to university.
Azizullah graduated from the Kabul Military University in 1969 and then served as an officer of the Afghan Army in Nahrin, Baghlan Province, and Rishkhoor garrison in Kabul.
He joined the Islamic Movement in J973 through his brother, Hafizullah Afzali, who was martyred in Panjshir in an armed encounter with the soldiers of President Daud -- "the Red Prince” -- in 1975. Hafizullah was an active member of the Islamic Movement and a student at Kabul University.
Azizullah was a captain in the Afghan army when he was jailed in Pul-i-Charkhi Prison by the communist regime in 1979. They suspected him of having links with the Mujahideen. He was released one year later, after the Soviet invasion, in a general amnesty announced by Babrak Karmal. After his release, he returned to Herat and began armed straggle along with the other Mujahideen. Azizullah is married and has four children. His family lives in Ban.
Under Azizullah's command, the Mujahideen of the Afzali Front have been very active against the Soviets and the Kabul regime in various parts of Herat. Here are some of their major operations:
In 1986, his Mujahideen resisted an enemy attack on their base in Kakara, Gulran District Fighting continued for several weeks. Soviet troops woe also involved in the attack. The enemy retreated after suffering heavy casualties. The bodies of 70 Soviets and regime troops had remained in the
battlefield. Three tanks and one helicopter of the enemy were destroyed. Several Mujahideen, including Commander Mohammad Qasim, were martyred in the operation.
In 1987, the Mujahideen of the Afzali Front attacked an enemy post inside the city of Herat and captured 25 Kabul regime officers and seized a considerable number of weapons. His Mujahideen were assisted by sympathizers within the post.
In 1989, the Mujahideen of the Afzali Front took an active part in recapturing Jebrael, in Enjeel District. After nine days of fighting, the enemy was forced to retreat. More than 15 enemy troops were killed in this operation. The Mujahideen lost three men.
In 1990, his Mujahideen liberated Kushk and Nawbadam areas, capturing 15 enemy soldiers and killing many others. A considerable amount of arms and ammunition was seized..
In 1989, his Mujahideen set fire to an ammunition dump of Division No.17 of Herat. The dump burned for eight hours, killing and wounding many enemy soldiers.
Afzali Front under the leadership of Commander Azizullah has improved its relations with Ismail Khan, the renowned Jami'at commander in Herat. He took active part in the recent fighting in Zindajan in support of Ismail Khan.
Afzali Front has been very active in the field of education too. More than 100 schools have been opened by this front in the refugee camps in Iran and in the liberated areas of Herat. In these schools, more than 20,000 students are taught by 300 teachers. A high school for boys by the name of Jami and a high school for girls by the name of Khadijatul Kubra has been opened by the front in Iran. The front has also opened two orphanages in Iran for the Afghan refugees.
Amina Afzali, the widow of
To page (3)
Ashe3tariq%,.. the .Vice President of Syria, paid ah official I visit to Kabul at the end pf July: According to Radio Kabul, he prom-fbi§|p5 Kabul regime	mAVBKk %
Regime forces face severe difficulties in northern Afghanistansjand are short of weapons and soldiers in their fight against Mujahideen gikjri)| las. a senior militia officer of there-; g$|| has admitted.	-	!
The government simply doesn't have enough troops in the north and soon this problem is goinp to become critical,’ Abdul Qudoos Pianshi, d% uty chairman of the SAZA militias, fold Reuters,
•••
Turkish | has come out in print. "Mujahid" is the official organ of Jami'at, first published in Persian and Pushtu. ”Mujahid”s Turkish editions will be distributed in Turkey and Cennahy,. St-	xxf"	'
.
A missile fired by the Kabul regime has killed two Pakistani soldiers and wotmded two others in Lancfikool, close to die bender with Afghanistan.
According to Pakistani officials,
the missile was a Ruskbn-m^b
ISgg|
•••

Unknown gunmen wounded Isayyed Usman Mairanay, an activist of the Afghan Melted Party, a nation-
tares of the!
New Zealander and three Afj were abducted by tribesmen