flFGHRH MEWS UOl.lll, HO. 19, 1/10/ 1967 PAGES
 More importantly, last year the SCN could stop migration of thousands of families to Pakistan. It assured them that it could provide them with help and that it could defend them against Russian attacks.
 Moreover, from a cultural and educational point of view, the SCN has established a new educational system in its bases (and other areas under its control). As you can see, in each base tens of schools have been established, schools are more crowded and active than in the past, and their activities are well-organized.
 Q, As we can see, you are always busy and working hard. This is the case while you are responsible only for five provinces. If some more provinces are added to the SCN in the future you will have extremely limited time. I think the reason for this situation is the fact that Mujahideen have not been able to get a cadre of skilled and expert persons in different fields in spite of eight years having passed from the beginning of their * struggle. Would you, who are the head of the SCN and have led the Mujahideen, explain -whether you have not wanted to train such a cadre or you have not been able to o so?
 A. In my mind, it is not correct to say there is not a cadre and that everything is done by an individual. At present, there is a division of labor among us (in the SCN),. With the mercy of God, there are cadres in various fields, and each one carries out its activities independently. In the military field, there is little need for me in the future. Except for my providing a design or a plan, other brothers could do all other things themselves.
 In particular, our Central Units are at a level in which they can design a plan and implement it completely by themselves. In the military field, our needs are small, and we have a sufficient number of skilled commanders.
 In regard to political activities and other affairs, we have some skilled brothers and also cadres are under training. In the cultural Held, although we badly need skilled individuals, there are some brothers who could carry out the task without my presence.
 Undoubtedly, at the level of Afghanistan as a whole, there is a great need for skilled individuals; and I consider this lack as our main shortcoming.
 But it is not true that there is no cadre in the SCN. You can meet the members of the Council and see that most of them are highly educated. We do not have as many skilled people as we wish we had, but it does not mean there are none at all.
 Q. You are a member of J.I.A How do you evaluate Jamiat's position among other Islamic parties in Afghanistan.
 A Undoubtedly, I am a member of J.I A. Naturally, anyone belonging to an organization considers that organization better and more reasonable than others. Thus,
 I consider J.I.A more reasonable and more effective than other parties. Jamiat's policies are moderate. It has avoided ext; ,mism Jamiat's goals and programs have been truly Islamic. Its activities inside and outside Afghanistan have been based on reason. Jamiat has always prepared the ground for the growth of its members. It has supported and developed positive works. These are the positive points we see in J.I.A.
 Q Some people claim you want to establish a new Islamic Organization and utilize J.I.A only as a source of supply, What do you have to say about this?
 A. In my view, anyone who wants to further divide the Mujahideen commits a great treason. I believe every body could serve (Jehad) within the party to which he belongs.
 If there are problems and shortcomings in a party, and if the person is a sincere muslim, he will try to remove the problems and shortcomings by his efforts and hard work. If a person thinks since a certain party has shortcomings, he should establish a new organization, past experience shows that such an action would not benefit the Jehad It would, rather, seriourly harm Mujahideen. For example, prof Sayyaf could not