 A lot of journalists covering Afghanistan , these days ask the question "Are not you worried about the Soviets and their puppet regime propaganda about
 elections, broadening the base of the government etc ?
 The answer is we are not worried about the people of Afghanistan , but we are worried about the outside world who may be misled by our enemy propaganda..
 The reason for this is:
 The outside world see the propaganda face of the communist regimes. Because of lack of contact the people rely on the information provided by these* governments. What is provided by them is highly censored and full of propaganda since it is repeated every day, after some times people start to believe ii. The situation becomes more dangerous when the Communists usd sophisticated ways of telling lies the way Gorbachev does . This is why we are worried about the outside world,
 Communists now have left their rhetoric of the Leninist-Staiinist times .Now they do not speak very much about class struggle, proletarian dictatorship, historical determinism etc.
 Now they come with an army and claim that they have been invited. They invade a country and make use of the articles of the U.Nliharter . They kill half a million people and keep the rest of the world in the dark by killing and frightening journalisis.They drive 5 million people out of a country and call them nomads or decieved elements.
 Now they have started to talk, in a more sophisticated way. While they are escalating the war , bringing more troops and new weapons, talk about peace and intention to withdraw They change one puppet for another and call it a big change They talk about election, inclusion of some non-Communist elements in the government, convening tribal jirgas (Assemblies of the elders of the tribes) call it the consolidation of the puppet regime in the country, while all these terms are meaningless in an occupied country, it can be decieving to some who believe in any kind of election and representation of the people in the government.
 There is no question of elections in war-torn and partially occupied Afghanistan. But the Soviet believe in the power of propaganda and the repetition of big lies.
 When we say wTe are not worried about the situation inside our country we believe in it, In Afghanistan, the people see the facts with their own eyes. They see the atrocities and hear the propaganda on the enemy radio and T.V. They are in a very good position to compare , On the same day when Radio Moscow and its baby, Radio Kabul, elaborate on the achievements of revolutionary Afghanistan and give hope for a progressive and prosperous future, the Soviet planes bomb all the valiiges. of Eshkamish and Khost and all the mosques and Eid gathering places and kill more than 5000 men, women and children and