AFGHANews Vol 5, No 8, April 15,1989, page @
Council of North
News
From page (2)
A Soviet correspondent 'has described the situation in Jalalabad as very grave. As each day passes the area controlled by the regime shrinks. About 40,000 refugees from Jalalabad have found their way to refugee camps in Pakistan.
Commander Mahmood from Hizb Islami (Khalis group) said in an inter-view with Voice of America that Mujahideen forces were positioned in Samarkhel, Khush Gunbad, Kamma, and Behsood. The Commander admitted that the casualties of the Mujahideen were relatively high and the reason he said, was lack of discipline, heavy air and artillery bombardment and Mujahideen efforts to evacuate their families. He said that the enemy forces have suffered heavy casualties in Jalalabad fighting.
The Mujahideen commander said that about 250 Mujahideen had been killed in the fighting and more than 100 wounded. He did not give any figure for civilian casualties.
He said Mujahideen from different parties cooperate with each other and they launched the attack against enemy targets undo- a single command.
Commander Mahmood refused to give a date for the fall of Jalalabad but said that the enemy's low morale and shortage of supplies would contribute to. the fall of the city in the future.
Editorial
From Page ( 4 )
land, the Mujahideen have a right to get assistance to liberate their country from the communists' rule.
The UN and its agencies should not be used by the Soviets and their puppets far propaganda purposes. It is a pity that such a prestigious body as the Security Council is being used for propaganda purposes by the regime and that the Soviet Union as the current president is helping it to happen.
Hikmatyar visits southeast Asia
The foreign minister of the interim government of the Mujahideen left Pakistan for Dhaka, at the start of his tour of six countries in southeast Asia. In Dhaka Gulbuddin Hikmatyar met with the president and foreign minister of Bangladesh.
Talking iri a reception in Dhaka, Hikmatyar claimed that the Mujahideen will capture Kabul during the month of Ramazan.
publishes
The first edition of the fortnightly paper of the Supervisory Council of the North, "Shoora" ("Council"), was published on February 5.
The paper is published and edited by Abdussalam Paiman in four pages inside Afghanistan.
Prof. Rabbani's message to the victims of the recent Soviet atrocities in Salang and Panjshir, and Commander Masood’s interview fill the first page of the paper. Masood foresees the fall of the communist regime in the future.
The editorial of the paper, on the second page, comments on Soviet gains and losses in their aggressive war in Afghanistan. It concludes that the Soviets committed a big mistake in invading Afghanistan and it will be another mistake if they continue to interfere in the affairs of Afghanistan.
On the third page a poem welcomes the publication of "Shoora" in a critical time of the history of the country.
The last page is full of news from the battlefields. The paper's language is simple and the print quality relatively good
The Mujahideen parties publish newspapers and magazines in a dozen national and foreign languages, but all of these publications are printed outside Afghanistan. The special thing about "Shoora" and a few other papers is that they are published from inside Afghanistan. They talk in the language
of fighters and express their feelings in the best possible way.
Jami'at Islami was the first party to publish papas from inside. "Neda-e-Jehad” was a weekly paper published in Panjshir. "Sangar" was another paper published by Abdul Hay Haqjoo's front in Nahrin (Bag hi an). "Besharat" was published by the Mujahideen from Herat.
The story of one of the internal publications, "Neda-i-Jehad” may be of interest to our readers.
In 1980, Masood felt the need for a publication. A duplicating machine was brought from Pakistan. One could not buy a duplicating machine in Kabul without official permission.
At first, the name of the publication was "Mujahid". Jami'at headquarters in Peshawar also published a paper by the same name. To avoid confusion the name of the weekly "Mujahid" was changed to "Neda-i-Jehad" ("Call for Jehad").
It came out on Thursdays, with a circulation of 1200. About 300 copies were smuggled into Kabul. The rest were distributed in the Panjshir valley and neighboring valleys.
The paper was published in Dari in eight pages. The paper and ink were brought from Kabul. Paper and ink were monopolized by the government and one needed official permission to
Turn to page (4 )