AFGHANews Vol 5, No 12, June 15, 1989, page @
News
From the battlefields
»■
Badakhshan province
The Mujahideen from Jami’at, under the command of Abdul Qader Wasiqi, liberated Shahr-i-Buzurg subdistrict after capturing the enemy base on April 22.
The base and its five posts came under the Mujahideen attack and in ten days of fighting 15 soldiers were killed and 120 captured.
The Mujahideen seized the following weapons:
1-	ZPU machine-gun 1
2-	DShK machine-gun 1
3-	Mortals (82 mm) 2
4-	PK machine-guns 2
5-	RPG-7 rocket launchers 2
6-	Kalashnikov rifles more than
200
7-	Some amount of ammunition
The Mujahideen lost eight men
and five were injured.
Two days later Soviet jets which flew from Soviet bases heavily bombed the area. A large number of houses were destroyed and more than ten civilians were killed.
Shahr-i-Buzurg is situated close to the Soviet border. After the enemy militia units joined the Mujahideen in the neighboring Takhar province, the liberation of Shahr-i-Buzurg became easier.
Commander Wasiqi is a young energetic fighter who supports the idea of organized work. He closely cooperates with the Supervisory Council of the North.
Badghis province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Naik Mohammad Khan attacked Qala-i-Naw, the provincial capital on May 24.
In 24 hours of fighting die enemy lost 90 soldiers and 150 were captured by the Mujahideen.
The Mujahideen had captured part
of the town i and the airport when a Mortar shell killed commander Naik Mohammad. The incident shocked the Mujahideen and they retreated without achieving their aim of liberating Qala-i-Naw.
Six other Mujahideen were also killed in the operation.
Balkh Province
On June 1, a militia unit composed of 300 men surrendered to the Mujahideen from Jami'at when it was attacked on the road between Balkh and Aqcha. They brought with them more than 300 light weapons and one antiaircraft gun.
The Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Ata Mohammad captured an enemy post near Khulm district on May 22. TTiey seized 12 guns. The reports do not say anything about the casualties of the two sides.
On May 26, the Mujahideen captured five Kalashnikov rifles and one grenade launcher (AGS-17) in the same area
On May 27, the Mujahideen attacked the enemy posts in Chimtal district. One post was captured, 21 Kalashnikov rifles and two rocket launchers woe seized.
On June 4, the Mujahideen from Jami'at captured 10 enemy soldiers and officers and seized three ZPU guns, two PK machine-guns, one mortar and one R-105 radio set. The Mujahideen also hit an enemy jet with machine-gun fire which exploded in midair but its crew parachuted down to the enemy controlled area
Herat province
A well-known militia commander in Herat, Arif Barokzay, and his two bodyguards were killed on June 4 in Jalwarja area when the jeep carrying them hit a landmine planted by the
Mujahideen.
On the same day, Abdul Ghafoor Sardistani, a militia commander, and his deputy were killed by the Mujahideen from Jami’at. Seventy militiamen under his command surrendered to the Mujahideen and handed over the following arms and ammunition to the Mujahideen:
1-	Kalashnikov rifles	70
2-	Mortar	1
3-	Heavy machine-guns 5
4-	ZPU machine-gun	1
4-	Radio set	1
5-	Ammunition 100,000
rounds
Kabul province
On May 30, the Mujahideen from Jami’at under the command of Mullah Bzat killed three enemy soldiers and captured 25 when they attacked Paghman district headquarters in Burjak village. The Mujahideen seized 30 weapons.
Scud kills 24 persons of one family
A huge explosion woke up the valley at dawn on May 4 . In a few seconds 24 men, women and children were dead. They belong to one family who had got together to celebrate the birth of a new bom child.
Nadir Khan of Rashidi village in Andarab was happy when his grandson was bom. When the boy was six days old he arranged a party in which all his family members participated.
They had got together to celebrate the child’s birth and give him a name. These type of parties are common among the rich people in that area.
A Scud missile fired by the communists hit Nadir Khans house and in seconds 24 people, including the new bom baby were dead and the house razed. Nadir Khan, the only survivor of the incident, was injured. He survived to be a witness to an unprecedented crime committed by communists against peaceful people.
Nadir Khan was on his way to mosque when a huge ball of fire came towards his house from the direction of Salang. It hit the house and made him unconscious.
The missile was fired by the communists with the assistance of Soviet advisors. The Soviet Union decided to provide a large number of these deadly weapons to the regime prior to the completion of their troop withdrawal. The missile have been used mainly against civilian targets.