MTHEItAMBOf AUHOHTT ALLAH 1
A FGH A Nnews
                A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT BLAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264. PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                         TOL. Ill NO. 1.1/1/1967.
                                        TRIP TO AFRICA VERY USEFUL
  Prof. Rabbani concluded his African lour and returned back to Peshawar. During this trip he visited Gabon. Niger and Senegal. At the end of his African tour he also paid an official visit to Belgium There he had discussions with the prime minister and foreign minister of that country.
  In $abon, he met President Omar Bongo on December 6 in the presidential palace in Libreville.
^ *
  During the meeting Prof. Rabbani described the situation in Afghanistan and the problems the Resistance is facing. He explained hoar the Soviets extended their influence in Afghanistan and finally invaded the country.
  Tho President took a deep interest in the discussions and asked many questions vhich ▼ere ansvered by Rabbani.
  President Bongo said that ho has opposed the Soviet invasion and continue to do so. He assured Prof. Rabbani of his strong support in the coming Islamic Summit in Kuvait. He added* Your struggle is just. You light for your defense. I support you and pray for you success*.
  Prof. Rabbani and other members of his delegation had more meetings vith high ranking officials of Gabon.
                    On December 9th. Prof. Rabbani met ICaj-Gon. Seyni Eountche President of the Supreme
  Military council of Niger in the presidential palace In Niamey.
                                       >
  Prof. Rabbani described the situation in Afghanistan and the Soviet's aim of the' invasion.The Professor said that the invasion of Afghanistan vis not an isolated incident but Soviets had plans beyond Afghanistan. Prof. Rabbani said that the Soviet invasion was not against only Afghanistan but against all Muslims He also told the • President about the achievements of the Mujahideen in the battle fields. Prof. Rabbani stressed the need for a more active support to Afghan cause by African countries vrho hive a tradition of anti-colonial struggle.
  President Kountche praised the heroism of Afghans in defense of their homeland.Be said that Niger has supported the cause of Afghans in the past and Till continue to do so in the future. The President regretted the fact that there is division among Islamic countries vhich hss stopped them from taking a strong position in support of Afghans in their just struggle. He said that That happened to Afghanistan could happen to other Islamic countries. Muslims must defend their faith against any aggressor coming from anywhere. He assured Rabbani of his country's full support
  In the last leg of his trip. Prof. Rabbani visited Senegal and met President Abdou Diouf on December 11.