AFGHANews Vol 5, No 3, February 1, 1989, page 5
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Com. Mohammad Rahim
Commander Rahim, a young Uzbek horse-rider who has been wounded eleven times in the war against the Soviets, was bom 28 years ago in Sangcharak District of Jawzjan province. His father, Haji Ayoub, was a merchant selling rugs and carpets. His mother was from Central Asia who had . escaped along with her father from communist rule.
"I heard the stories of the Soviet atrocities when they invaded Bukhara, a city in Central Asia. 1 still remember the tearful eyes of my grandfather recalling his past memories. 1 was brought up in an atmosphere filled with stories about Soviet atrocities," said Commander Rahim, who arrived in Peshawar two weeks ago for medical treatment
Commander Rahim went to the primary school in his village and to a mosque to learn the Holy Quran. "I left school to help my father in his business," recalled commander Rahim.
He was 18 years old when the communist government took power in Kabul in 1978. His family left the city for the mountains. They stayed about six months in the mountains. "That was my first experience being far from the city. My father bought me a shotgun and 1 never forget the first sentence ^ he told me when he gave the gun to me. He said that 1 should not lay my gun down until the enemy was out," said Rahim.
His father and his uncles contributed to Jehad by buying guns and encouraging him to fight. Rahim made contact with a group of Mujahideen when he was in the mountains. "Qazi Sharif, Alemi and Sayfuddin were the first commanders from J ami'at who accepted me as a Mujahid and trained me in how to use the weapon. Since then I have left my family and devoted all my time and energy to Jehad," said Commander Rahim.
It was in the winter of 1978 that Rahim participated in the first battle in his life. "We ambushed a government convoy at Archatoo in Sangcharak which resulted in the capture of a lot of weapons. I was wounded for the first time in that operation," recallec Commander Rahim, showing his shoulder which bears a coin-size scar. He considered the scar his first medal ol ‘ honor.
After that success he became a group commander, expanded his group and established his first base in the mountains of Sangcharak (Sangcharak,
located on the border of Mazar-i-Sharif and Jawzjan, has been a strategic base for both provinces).
Within two years Commander Rahim became a well-known Mujahid amongst his people. People started to trust this young commander. He met Commander Zabihullah Shaheed and learnt a lot from him. "I learnt from lim how to deal with people and how to organize them." "Never take people for. granted even if they are 100% with you," This was what commander Zabihullah taught him.
In 1983 commander Rahim was appointed by the leader of Jami'at as the military commander of the whole Jawzjan province. He made a six-member executive council to deal with military, political and social problems. The executive council created a judicial committee and arbitration committee headed by senior villagers to deal with the problems of the people.
In his area he has established IS schools and some Madrasas (mosque schools) for the children. Their middle school has classes up to eighth grade.
Commander Rahim believes that the Soviets are leaving but that they will change the provinces such as Balkh, Samangan and Jawzjan as the last stronghold of their puppets. He said that for a year the Soviets have built lots of new buildings in and around the city of Mazar-i-Sharif. They have expanded its airport and have strengthened the defences of the city.
He says that the Mujahideen should he very careful about the Soviets' future intentions in regard to the North of the country.
News
From page (2 )
3-	Three rocket launchers and one 82mm mortar.
4-	Three communication sets .
They also captured a large quantity
of ammunition.
Basir Khalid said in his letter that his Mujahideen suffered no casualties. He did not say whether the post was captured as a result of contacts with the soldiers and officers or as a result of fighting.
Basir Khalid who is operation around Faizabad, the provincial capital of Badakhshan, has complained about food shortages in Badakhshan.
He said that the Mujahideen and civilian population suffer from shortages of food.
"Despite difficulties we will continue to fight till the liberation of the country". Commander Basir said.
Farah province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Tahir Khan clashed with militia units of the regime atoiinc Shindand air base on January 22.
Four hundred militiamen headed b * Sultan Muhammad surrendered to tv Mujahideen bringing with them 4' guns and 3 trucks.
On the same day, a group of 3i militiamen joined the Mujahideen bringing their weapons with them . The report adds that at the moment the areas around the base are cleared of .militiamen.