	rnAFGHANews Vol 8, Nos 21 & 22, November 15, 1992, page Q	
Hezb Islami kidnaps Mawlawi Mansoor Mawlawi Nasrullah pid bodyguards of Mansoor". Mansoor, the Governor of According to Hezb, the opponents Paktia Province, the Head of 0f Mansoor had laid an ambush on the Peace Commission of Southern road and the Hezb forces wanted to Provinces and the Vice stop Mansoor from going to Gardcz for President of Harakat-i-Inqilab his own safety . Hezb put the blame of Islami, was kidnapped by killing of Mansoor’s bodyguards on Hezb Islami in Charasyab on themselves but failed to give an expla-November 10 while he was nation for the theft of money, travelling from Kabul to There are indications that Hezb uaraez. was angry with Mawlawi Mansoor and In the ambush laid by Hezb, two (he incident is an expression of this an-of his bodyguards were killed, 15 were ger Hezb has ^ dislodge wounded and about $400,000 cash car- Mansoor from his post as the governor ried by the governor was looted. 0f paktia with the help of some other When the news of the ambush commanders, including Jalaluddin reached Kabul, some Mujahideen lead- TTaLqqani. Hezb failed to remove ers and religious scholars rushed to Mans00r from hjs post_ mainly save him. At the beginning, Hikmatyar he js supported by the people in refused to release him, but under pres- oardez sure from Ulama he set him free after _ .. ,n . , The second point which made 10 hours of captivity. Mawlawi _, . ,, „ ■ j. v u i l, L. a l. Hezb angry was Mansoor s position Mansoor returned to Kabul, shocked by , , , ,T / ' . , .. ., , over the withdrawal of Hezb forces e unexpec inci en from around Kabul. He had said that In a press conference held in „ , . . . „ . . „ . , . Hezb has to leave the Kabul area in re-Kabul, Mansoor denounced the action , . ... , , ....... . ... , . turn for the withdrawal of units of and said he did not think Hikmatyar „ . . - „ . . _ . , .. „ , .... _ Division 53. He was the only Pushtoon was so mad. He called Hikmatyar a , . . , ... .. „ . , . „ ,. „ , . , leader who took a public position on murderer and a robber and asked . ... , ....... . , the issue of the full implementation of the Mujahideen parties to take a com- , _ . .... the ceasefire agreement. He raised mon stand against him. . . . r According to Mansoor if die ^st,ons about ,thc SinCentyf of Ulama had not pressured Hikmatyar ™™tyar ,n '"P1™"" of for his release, he would have been killed. He said his kidnapping was The >nc*dent of Charasyab in-aimed at sabotaging the peace process, creased the tension between Hezb and Hikmatyar's action made members Harakat forces in various of ^ of Harakat and other parties extremely country, especially in Paktia Province, angry. This is die first incident of its ™ere is «•* Possibility of armed clash-kind in the history of Jehad in which ^ between the two sides, the leader of an Islamic organization The mild reaction of Harakat to has been disgraced by another party. earlier incidents of Laghman and The reactions of Hezb were self- Maidan might have encouraged contradictory. Qariburrahman Saced, a Hikmatyar to indulge in abduction of Hezb propagandist, called Mansoor a die Vice President of that party, pro-militia personality who served the Harakat liberated Laghman and interest of Iran. But later Hezb tried to Maidan from the communist regime in soften its position by describing the in- April but Hezb drove that party from cideiit as an accident provoked by "stu- both provincial capitals by force.	Editorial From page (4) | ing to Kabul. Hekmatyar's goal is to weaken the government; Hikmatyar is obliged, under the terms of the ceasefire agreement, to keep the roads open. But under the pretext that the food and fuel reach "communists" and "militias" in Kabul, he has blocked the roads. As a result of this roadblock the prices of food and fuel have skyrocketed. The people in Kabul and other parts of Afghanistan are afraid of acute shortages of food and fuel during the coming winter. The Islamic government ind its defense ministry have tried to solve the issue through political means. The defense ministry has abstained from use of force to open roads and escort supply convoys by army units, which are measures appropriate to limes of war. But banditry along the highways has intensified, and some other outlaws, encouraged by Hezb's actions, have begun to follow suit. The lime has come to reconsider the government's self-restrained policy in dealing with the highway problems. Waiting longer could endanger the lives of innocent citizens, and already is being interpreted as a sign of government. It seems that the issue cannot be solved without the use of force. The defense ministry should prepare plans for military operations, which must then be authorized by the Leadership Council. The party leaders should realize the seriousness of the situation and urgently adopt a workable joint policy towards this problem. Some leaders, including a Deputy Prime Minister and a Vice President, had called the defense of Kabul against Hezb’s attacks as "a war between Hezb and Jami‘at". It Is to be hoped that they will not adopt a similar attitude towards the vital issue of opening roads. A government which fails to provide essential commodities to its people loses credibility in the eye of its citizens. Such a development is not only dangerous for the transitional government but also poses a serious threat to law and order, and endangers the process leading to an elected government.
jRussia rejects Hezb's allegations The Russian Federation has turned down plea by Hezb Islami leader to I stop prindng Afghan currency and said it would continue to do so under an in-1 ter-govemmental agreement with Afghanistan. Responding to a letter written by Hikmatyar, the Russian ambassador in I Islamabad, Mr. Yakunin, said Russia was printing and supplying the Afghan ! currency to the present government of Afghanistan in accordance with the in-I ter-govemmental agreement on the basis of a commercial contract He denied Hikmatyar's assertion that printing of Afghanis in Russia with-i out gold reserves as backup was intended to further destabilize Afghanistan ec-i onomically. "On the contrary it represents a good example of cooperation be-j tween the government of the Russian Federation and the government of i Afghanistan," the envoy remarked.	
!
i
i
j