
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 7, April 1,1991, page 0
Editorial
V	 '	_____________
Jehad will benefit from renewed ties between Riyadh and Teheran
War in a Distant Country.
Afghanistan:
Invasion and Resistance by David C. Isby
Arms and Armour Press Price £14.95
The resumption of diplomatic ties between Iran and Saudi Arabia, two Islamic countries which support the Mujahideen, is good news for the Afghan resistance.
The two countries decided to resume ties on 26 April. Iran has decided to end itsboycott of Haj, after an agreement was reached on the number of Iranian pilgrims to Mecca. The Saudi government has fixed a quota for each Islamic country proportional to its population, and this quota formula has been approved by the Organization of Islamic Conference.
Diplomatic relations between the two countries ended in 1988. Relations between Riyadh and Teheran were tense over Saudi support for Iraq in the Iraq-Iran war. They had suffered another blow when Saudi security forces and Iranian pilgrims clashed in 1987, leaving about 400 dead. Iran boycotted the annual pilgrimage to Mecca for the next three years.
Resumption of diplomatic ties will enable thousands of Iranians to perform Haj. Some Afghans who live in Iran will also be able to perform Haj. Iran had helped Afghan refugees to perform Haj in the past.
Resumption of ties between Saudi Arabia and Iran will have a positive effect on the Afghan issue. Saudi Arabia has been generous in providing material assistance to the refugees and Mujahideen and has supported the diplomatic efforts of the Afghan resistance. Iran is host to about two million Afghan refugees and Shia political parties, and has been supporting the Mujahideen too. Absence of diplomatic ties between the two supporters of the Mujahideen had made coordination of efforts in support of Jehad difficult
Now that they have resumed their ties, they can talk with each other about a cause which has a significant impact on the future of Muslims and the region. Instead pf wasting energy in rivalries which were products of hostile attitudes, Iran and Saudi Arabia can help to bring Mujahideen groups closer.
The improvement of relations between Tehran and Riyadh is in the larger interest of the Muslim world and of peace in the region. There is a strong need for closer ties between Islamic states so that tragic events like the occupation of Kuwait, which led to a bloody war in the Gulf, can Ire prevented.
Jami'at Islami welcomes the improvement of relations between the two brotherly countries of Saudi Arabia and the Islamic Republic of Iran, and finds it to be in the interest of Afghans and the whole Muslim Ummah.
David Isby's book War in a Distant Country is an excellently organized concise analysis of the war is it evolved from 1979, with clear maps and black and white photos showing the men and their weapons. The obvious comparison is the with earlier book of Mark Urban's, War in Afghanistan. Isby's book is strikingly wider in its scope, not afraid of giving judgement when they help the reader understand the sequence of events. It also benefits by personal experience and insights gained by Isby's trips inside Afghanistan with Mujahideen groups.
He is sympathetic to the ideals anc achievements of the Afghan Mujahideen though his assessment of the military side of the struggle is always objective. "The Afghan Resistance is not an army but rather a people in arms; its strengths and weaknesses are those of Afghan society," Isby writes. The dogged determination to resist against all odds the overwhelmingly superior Soviet forces with mas-
1
Taliqan is no looter's paradise
Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar, is run smoothly by a coalition government of the Mujahideen and has never been looted, as an article in 'The News' has alleged.
In an article about the recent Mujahideen attack in Khost, Rahimullah Yusufzai wrote that some towns and cities liberated in the past were looted by the Mujahideen. Among the places he named was Taliqan which according to him was looted after its liberation about two years ago.
Although one cannot rule out some indisciplined behavior in some areas involving some Mujahideen groups, the story about Taliqan is not true.
Taliqan is a well-administered city with a regular police force. Visiting foreign and Afghan guests have appreciated the way the city is run, even saying that this example should be followed in other parts of Afghanistan. Therefore it is not fair to list Taliqan as a looted city.
Taliqan had had suffered some damages during the war which was repaired by the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen have started to reconstruct a state-owned garden, Bagh-i-Zakhira, which was turned into a military base by the Soviets during the occupation of the city.
sive air power required great courage.
Unfortunately for Isby, his text was completed just before Soviet withdrawal was completed and before the fighting in 1989 showed up the heavy penalty of those same deficiencies, and especially the chronic disunity and rivalries within the guerrilla resistance* which Isby does not shrink from describing. Only in a further edition will he have an opportunity to reassess the full significance of the Soviet military experience of Afghanistan.
Courtesy: ARIN