flFBHPN NEU8 VCL. Ill, NO.14, 15/7/ 19G7 PBGE 7
                                                BOOK REVIEW
                                      AFGHANISTAN; THE SOVIET WAS
 jBy FtfvsrrfJP. Girardet. 259 pages. Groom Helm
 Ltd. Provident House.. Burrell Row. Beckenham. Kent BP.? 1 AT
 Gieet Britain.
 Edvard Girardet, a special correspondent for the Christian Science Monitor, has prepared a veil informed appraisal of the tragic var raging in Afghanistan.
 Eollovmg the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in December 1979, Girardet decided to return to the region in order to report on the var Ihis book is the result of numerous trips to the region including six major trips into Afghanistan once vith an official visa and five times clandestinely vith Afghan resistance forces
 An examination is made as to vhy the Soviets invaded in 1979, and vhat they seek from Afghanistan. Girardet details Soviet strategy and hov the Afghan resistance has been able to hold its ovn against an overvhelming Russian military and political machine.
 The Soviet pillage of Afghanistan's natural resources is reported, as is the Marxist deliberate policy of migratory genocide through a combination of aerial bombardments, political repression and economic blockades.
 With large areas of Afghanistan ravaged by Soviet aggression, the Afghans have suffered some one million dead and more than five million refugees. Girardet documents the Soviet strategy of driving out the Afghan resistance and population
 through terror.
 An outline is given of the major Afghan resistance groups and the internal divisions inherent in such a struggle for survival and victory. Having intervieved many of the resistance leaders both inside Afghanistan and in the refugee camps. Girardet explains the nature of the Afghan Islamic anti-Communist struggle for independence.
 Girardet strongly attacks the neglect of the Afghan struggle shovn by Western governments, vhile praising the heroic vork of youpg Western doctors inside Afghanistan and other relief vorkers involved vith Afghan refugees.
 Edvard Girardet states in his introduction, that:
  As a journalist and fellov human being vho has lived, travelled and shared common experiences vith the Afghan resistance, it vould be dishonest of me to claim that this is a totally impartial appraisal. Victims of vhat I consider to be a brutal and colonialist form of repression by the Soviets, the Afghan people have all my sympathy.
 An excellent report on the var still raging in Afghanistan and a very human look at those brave Afghan varriors vho have von the hearts of men and vomen vorldvide.
                                    ALLIANCE DECISION CRITICIZED
 Eight Mujahideen Parties based in Iran have criticized the decision of the Alliance of the Mujahideen of Afghanistan to hold elections vithout consulting them.
 In a communique the mentioned parties stated that all sections of Afghan society have participated in the struggle against the Soviet invaders so they should be given opportunity to participate in deciding their future It is further said that the announced election is not practical and vill heighten the differences betveen contesting parties and lead to more problems.
