	16, August 15,1992, page ®
! " AFGHANews Vol 8, No	
Gulbuddin attacks Kabul | From page (1) I hundreds of public and private build- ings. TV transmitter, airport, state print- terroristic organization of Gulbuddin. jng press and other installations of vital While Hikmatyar was preparing importance were set on fire. A govem- for an extensive attack on Kabul, Farid ment spokesman described the damages left Kabul by road. He went to inflicted by Hezb as irreparable. Islamabad and Teheran to seek support . ...... . . ,. c _ ; ■ . As as result of fighting and road of Iran and Pakistan for reconstruction ., i . .. 6. 7 . . . f if i j , ... .. 	„ blocks, the pnces of food and fuel dou- of Afghanistan while his own party - .. . , , ■ .. i 7 . bled making life miserable for the peo-was engaged in destruction of capital. . . . . . *7 - .,t.. . . . pie. Water and electricity were cut be-Fand had not sought the permission of F . . _ J . . . , .u » ... v. • i. cause of the war. Even the hospitals the President and neither his visit was ... . ; ... 	. . . e ... which were full of wounded people did organized by the foreign ministry. . a?. f .I rr e not ha"e water and electricity. Supply After the start of war, the office of .... . . . \ . . . ,, of life-saving drugs are running out and Farid in Kabul was taken over by the . , , V * j - ... . . . due to lack of transportation and conun-govemment troops and his bodyguards . .. . . . *7 L . . . were escorted to outside the city and ucd f,Shun* oflhe doctors * not were allowed to return home. come to work. While the government was busy Even hospitals and embassies were dealing with the attack from Hezb, not spared by Gulbuddin's rocket at-Hezb Wahdat (a Shia party) and luihad lacks. The Red Crescent and military of Prof. Sayyaf began to fighfcach oth- . hospitals were damaged in rocket at-er in the western part of the city. The lacks. Two members of the Russian clash began one day after the, clean-up and two Afghan workers of the UN operation to clean the city from the were killed by Gulbuddin rockets. The armed groups was resigned. The clash UN Security Council asked the two caused many casualties. After some sides in the conflict to stop fighting and days the two sides agreed on a cease- provide protection for the foreigners, fire. Because of Hezb attack on the Representatives of the diplomatic city, the clashes between Wahdat and missions met with President Rabbani Ittihad were largely ignored by the seeking his cooperation to leave media. Afghanistan. The president briefed the As a result of Hezb's attack and delegation about situation in Kabul and clashes between Wahdat and Ittihad, a expressed sympathy with the Russians large number of people of Kabul were and UN officials killed in rocket at-forced to leave their homes and seek tacks. He assured them of government’s refuge in other parts of the city or out- cooperation for those who wanted to side Kabul. A large number of trucks leave Kabul. Hikmatyar announced a and buses* loaded with refugees and one-day ceasefire to let the diplomats their belongings were seen heading to- leave Kabul but conditioned his offer to wards north. Some refugees also went the release of Hezb prisoners by the towards Ningafhaf Province. These ref- government. A source Of the ministry ugees are facing tremendous problems of defense said there was no chance of and no organization offered any help to talking to Hikmatyar and the govem-them. ment was ready to arrange the depar-Rocket attacks on Kabul seton fire ture of foreign nationals from Kabul. Men to read Kabul TV news The Leadership Council of ers who extended maximum pressure the Islamic State batined read- for the ban were Prof. Sayyaf and ing of news on TV by women Mawlawi Khalis who conditioned their on July 27, support to the government to the ban. The women newscasters The decision provoked debate began to wear Islamic dress af- abQUt me role of women in the new ter the establishment Of the Islamic State. Some women newscast-IslamiC government but some ers have tried to leave the country. Mujahideen parties were not ' satisfied with less than total ™role °f women "> society ban of reading news by has always been a sensitive issue in the women. country which has sparked rebellion The eight wpmen newscasters of ag^nsl; die government, the TV were transferred to other The recent decision of banning branches of the TV. They can appear in reading news on TV by women is a pre-other programs. ventive measure to avoid further prob-Women newscasters of radio con- lems for a government which is facing tinued to read the news. The two lead- enormous problems at the moment;	American team visits Kandahar An official American delegation visited Kandahar on July 15 to assess war damage in that province. After holding talks with the commanders, the delegation returned to Quetta on the same day. The delegation included officials of USAID and the drug enforcement agency of the US embassy in Islamabad. The delegation was received at Speenboldak border post by members of Kandahar Council. This is the first official delegation from the United States vising Kandahar after 14 years. The delegation had received formal permission from ihe Afghan embassy in Islamabad. The commanders in Kandahar briefed the US delegation about their problems and promised to cooperate in eradication of opium production in the province. Herat delegation comes to Kabul A 36-member delegation from the historic province of Herat, headed by Commander Allauddin Khan, reached Kabul July 28 to express support for the Islamic government and to seek its assistance for the reconstruction of that province. The delegation, which included representatives of different Mujahideen parties, met with President Rabbani, Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood and other government leaders. Most of the people of Herat are affiliated with Jami'at Islami Afghanistan. Ismail Khan, die chief commander of Jami'at in that province, has been appointed governor and military commander of Herat. A civilian administration has been set up to run the affairs Of the province. The law and order situation in Herat has been described as very good, and governmental-offices and schools function normally. But the city of Herat and it surrounding areas were devastated during the war.