AFGHANews Vol 6, No 23, December 1, 1990, page ©
Reconstruction news
Water system repaired
The Reconstruction Committee of SC has completed repairs on the water supply system of Taliqan, which provides drinking water for the people of the city , HINA reported.
Abdul Malik, the head of the Reconstruction Committee of SC, said repair work took about one and a half months and upon completion of the work, the people of Taliqan will drink clean water.
The water supply system of the city stopped functioning during fighting between the Mujahideen and regime troops. Drinking water is pumped out of deep wells, dug in the city. The city has running water but it is not suitable for drinking.
Four wells dug
The Committee also completed digging four wells in Kalafgan to provide drinking water to the people.
Culverts built
The Committee completed construction of nine culverts in Bagh-i-Zakhira and Nahr-i-Kharkar of Eshkamesh District and six culverts on
Taliqan-Taqcha Khana road. Taqcha Khana road was re-opened after 12 years. Repair work on Taqcha Khana road is in progress. The road connects the salt mine in Taqcha Khana with Taliqan. Salt extracted from Taqcha Khana is being sold all over the North and even to Kabul.
Mashtan bridge built
The committee also built a bridge on the Worsaj river. The bridge connects Mashtan valley to Worsaj. The 10-kilometer Mashtan road was completed.
Road repaired
Repair work on the Dara-i-Zindan Road in Samangan Province has been halfway completed, HINA reports.
In addition to leveling the road, five culverts have been constructed and construction of five other culverts is in progress.
Dara-e-Zindan road is 10 kilometers long and its repair will help the local people to transport their needs.
The repair has been initiated by Maulawi Abduz Zahir, Jami'at provincial chief in Samangan.
Moscow to Kabul: free lunch over
The head of the Kabul regime hopes to barter Afghan gas for goods imported from the Soviet Union.
A group of Soviet journalists visiting Kabul asked Najib how he saw the future of economic relations between Kabul and Moscow, since the Soviet people now criticize economic aid to developing countries, especially to Afghanistan?
Najib said he needed the economic support of the USSR but plans were under way to increase exports of those items that Soviets needed. He said in the near future exports of gas will be resumed. Afghanistan will sell 300 million cubic meters of gas annually to Moscow.
Najib said Kabul has started to pay for Soviet goods in hard currency. He said in 1990 trade between the two countries, based on hard currency, reached 14 million US dollars.
In another development, the Kabul regime has decided to devalue the Afghan currency to coax foreign investment to Afghanistan'.
The regime's economic minister said the official value of the Afghan currency does not reflect market realities. The official rate of Afghan currency is 51 Afghanis per US dollar while in the black market it has reached 700 Afghanis per US dollar.
Disabled Mujahideen protest
Around 200 disabled Afghans demonstrated in front of the AIG Prime Minister's office on November 18 to demand payment of their monthly allowance.
The Health Ministry of the AIG had opened an office to deal with the problems of disabled Afghans. It classified war-wounded Mujahideen in three categories, giving a monthly allowance for each category in addition to making arrangements to lodge and feed them. After a few months of payments the
Health ministry faced financial problems, and stopped paying the monthly allowance of the disabled Mujahideen. After several months of waiting the AIG instructed the registered disabled Mujahideen to ask their respective parties for their monthly allowance. The dispute took some of the disabled Mujahideen to the streets in Peshawar to protest against the AIG. They attacked some fancy cars belonging to refugees.
Wahdat opens offices abroad
The Wahdat party has opened offices in Germany, Austria and Denmark to promote political and cultural works in these countries.
A leader of the Wahdat Party told the Iranian News Agency that his party wanted to intensify political activities outside the country to muster support for Jehad. While the Peshawar-based Mujahideen are closing some of their offices abroad due to financial problems, the Iran-based Wahdat Party has intensified its political activities.
It sent a delegation to Cairo to present its views during the OIC Foreign Ministers' meeting. Later, a delegation went to New York to talk to UN officials about Afghan issues, when the General Assembly wanted to pass a resolution about the Afghan problem.
The Wahdat party enjoys the full financial and diplomatic support of the Islamic Republic of Iran. It is a merger of several Shia Mujahideen groups which has influence in the central part of Afghanistan. A number of Shia parties have broken away from the Wahdat Party and formed an alliance with its main office in Peshawar.
ICRC opens new hospitals
ICRC is planning to open three orthopedic centers in Kabul, Mazar-i-Shadf and Herat. The orthopedic centers will start work at the beginning of the new year. These hospitals will be able to treat only patients from the dues controlled by the Kabul regime because the Mujahideen are not ready to make use of facilities under regime control ICRC does not have any hospitals in the lib erated areas. It has set certain conditions for establishing hospitals in these areas: the transportation of medicine through Kabul, and free movement of the organization's medical teams between tit ies and liberated areas. The Mujahideen are op-posedtothis.
MeCp us puSCisH JZfgMMCezvs!
IVCease send your donations to the foCUmnng account numBer:
Account 9{p. 735-37 9(aBiB ‘BanhiLtd.
‘Tthkcd ‘Bcda, (Peshawar IPakistan