AI&HAHews Votl Ho 1% July 5,1938, Page3
Kalashinkov rifles and a PK machine gun. The Mujahideen also destroyed two jeeps and two trucks.
Parw&si
THE Mujahideen from Jam r at under the command of Shafa^s, wiped out about 20 posts which were located In 10 villages in Bagram district in a seven-day long operation starting from May 26, As a result, 20 soldiers were killed and 30 others wounded.
The Mujahideen had besieged the posts several days before launching the final attack. The Mujahideen claim that they captured more than 100 light weapons, nine heavy weapons, three trucks and some foodstuff.
The Mujahideen lost three men and six others were
wounded.
Kabul
•THE Mujahideen from jami at carried out an operation on the Kabul-Jalaiafead highway resulting in the blockade of the highway for three days starting from June 23 upto June 25,
About 506 Mujahideen took part tn the operation which covered an area about , 26 kilometers along the highway,
• In another attack On June 24, the Mujahideen destroyed three posts including a Command post in Dab ill area of Saroofei district. As a result, three tanks were destroyed and two jeeps were set on fire.
The Mujahideen lost two men and four others were wounded.
On the same day the Mujahideen destroyed three posts in Daragi area in which one tank and a truck were set on fire.
• The Mujahideen raided BRA security posts in Sareofei Town, killing 12 enemy soldiers, destroying a Russian tank and damaging a KHAD building on June 12.
•One BRA soldier surrendered to the Mujahideen of Jegdalik and two others were killed in a post on the Kabul-Jalalabad Highway on June 10.
All the above operations were carried out under the command of Anwar Khan, the Jami’at Commander in Saroohi district about 40 kilometers east of the city of Kabul.
Who ’s who fit	the	M
Commander Shaheen
COMMA MB Hi Sharif Shafcee®. 36. am unknown, bm very effective em&s&tfer of Jani at S&lassi in Capita province, wee bent is the village of Behhabi Is the center of the tmiftee. His father. Mahsuarasd Mir. was a jeer farmer working on ether teenies’ laad, Shaheen started to hef$ his father in collecting fire weed for the winter when he was seven years old.
“His family was very poor, every body remembers the little bare-foot Sharif carrying wood on his back to store it for the winter/’ said his cousin in Peshawar,
His father arranged just two years of schooling for him. Poverty deprived him of education.
When the puppet
Communist regime took power in 1$?&, Shaheen was busy in his poor Hfe trying tn find ways for living. Three months after the Communist coup he contacted the first Mujahideen group formed against the Communists in the area. “He become an ordinary Mujahid. He was doing two things; helping his family to survive and participating in the operations against the puppet regime/1 said his representative, Kftudsyar living in Peshawar, In a. very short time he proved to fee intelligent and a brave Mujahid.
Shaheen came to Peshawar after about a year he started his work, met prof. Rahb&m and joined Jmi'M party. After nine months of stay in Pakistan in the late 1979 he went back to his area, formed a stronger group and established three bases in
different strategic places
near Bagr&m Airbase,
Sagram Airbase was an easy operational target to Shaheen to capture more weapons from attacking Russl&a-BRA out-posts and bringing pressure on the enemy's supply lines.
Shaheen1 s group gradually grew larger.
Shaheen expanded his area of influence day by day. He contacted Commander Mascod and helped Masood s plan for the Shamati plains.
He learned a great deal from the war," said his friend Mawlavl Alamshah. He survived at least three major attacks of the Soviet Army, the latest one in the winter of 19S5*
Shaheen helped civilians by establishing a civil administration. He has opened some primary schools and one mobile nodical clinic.
Personally Shaheen is a soft spoken and kind | individual. He is famous for ! being frank and honest. He is f-married.