HFBHFM NEWS YCL HI, NO.4, 15/2/ 199? PAGE 4
against the enemy positions around the Ghaziabad farm in the past four -weeks. The enemy has suffered casualties but no exact figures are available.
                                             KUNAR PROVINCE
Mujahideen from Jami at have launched 3 rocket attacks against the enemy positions in the past 30 days. One tank and one truck were destroyed when they hit the land mines planted by the Mujahideen
                                 REPLAY OF THE PROPAGANDA FILM
Kabul TV received a lot of letters which requested the replay of the propaganda film called "The Revolution never Dies". Puppets and their Soviet advisors were very happy « and agreed to replay the film.
The propaganda film which was prepared by the Soviets, told of the Soviet version of the conflict in Afghanistan The poeple who were sending letters to the TV had another* reason for their request, something totally different from what the communist had perceived. They wanted to see once again the faces of some of commanders of the Mujahideen about whom they had heard of but had not had the opportunity to see their pictures. By writing some beautiful words, they fooled the communists and achieved what they wanted.
                                      FROM THE DIARY OF JEHAD
It was a cold day in November of 1981. The enemy garrison in the town of RukhatPanjhsir valley) was sealed off from all direction by the Mujahideen
Enemy jets and helicopters bombed the village around the garrison People moved to the narrow side valley to avoid air-strikes, but the frustrated enemy was deliberately bombing the villages
A bomb, dropped from MI-24 helicopter, hit a house in the village of Piawosht, 9 people were buried under the debris of the mud house. Mujahideen rushed to the scene and
tried to rescue the possible survivors
Rescue work was interrupted by low flying enemy helicopters After six hours of hard work, 8 bodies, two men. four women and two children were recovered. All those who were martyred belonged to the same family The only surviver was a 6 month old boy who was unhurt laying beside his dead mother, father and grandmother.
The child was taken to Kabul to be taken care of by his relatives, Now he is a 6 year old boy who plays war games and asks his grandfather, "where are the Soviets? I will fight them." Perhaps he wants to take the revenge of his family from the Soviet murderers.
                                        CEASEFIRE IGNORED
Now that one month has passed since the announcement of ceasefire by the puppet regime we clearly see that it was not observed, neither by the Mujahideen, nor by the puppets and Soviets themselves who had announced it.
In the first few days, the regime tried to relax the search missions in the cities, decrease the curfew hours and the number of troops from the streets to show to the invited foreign journalists that they are in full control of the situation.
After the rejection of the puppets' offer by the Alliance, military activities against the Soviets and their puppets increased. Reports reaching from all parts of Afghanistan confirms that the ceasefire announced by the puppets was violated, the puppets have admitted this themselves.