------ —----—--AFGHANews Vol5, No 5, March 1, 1989, page 6
Regime air force may delay Mujahideen's victory
A regime commander who defected to the Mujahideen predicts that the final phase of the war will be bloody.
Mohammad Asif, 38, the commander of 377 air brigade of the regime before he defected to the Mujahideen three months ago, said that the regime airforce will play an important role in future fighting between the Mujahideen and the communist regime.
Mohammad Asif, who was trained as a helicopter pilot in the Soviet Union eighteen years ago was sent again during the communists' rule to be trained as a commander. He speaks Russian fluently.
Mohammad Asif was a pilot of Ml-17 helicopter in the communist airforce and participated in many operations against the Mujahideen.
His brigade won the title of ’Heros of Afghanistan1 in 1988.
Since transport of goods and people is a major problem of the regime, Asif was asked to describe the capabilities of regime transport
He said that regime has 12 AN-12, 12 AN-32 and 20 AN-26 transport planes. An AN-12 can cany up to 10 tons of load. An AN-32 can cany SO men and AN-26 22 men.
Most of the regime's transport planes are stationed in Mazar-e-Sharif from where goods are transported to dif-ferent areas.
Bagram
Commander Asif said that Bagram air base, about 30 kilometers north of the Kabul; city, is the biggest base in Afghanistan. This base is used by jets and no helicopter unit is stationed in the base. Khwaja Rawash air base on the outskirts of the city houses only helicopters. Three other airbases in which, warplanes are stationed are Kandahar, Shindand and Mazar-i-Sharif airports.
Jalalabad, Ghazni, Faizabad, Gardez and Kunduz airports are used to land goods but no airplane of any kind is permanently stationed in them.
About the number of regime's helicopters Brigadier Asif said the regime had 25 Ml-35 and nine Ml-17 helicopters in Khwaja Rawash.
In Shindand, in the west of Afghanistan, 15 Ml-35 and eight Ml-8 woe stationed. Kandahar had 5 Ml-8
and Mazar 20 Ml-17 and eighth Ml-8 helicopters.
About the specification of Ml-35 helicopters he said that it is an improved version of Ml-24. Its engine is stronger, its aiming system is more precise and has an improved guided missile. It is manned by two inen, a pilot and a gunner.
Mohammad Asif said that the two pilots, Arif and Abdul Hay who defected to the Mujahideen in Panjshir with their helicopters belonged to his brigade and he personally knew than.
Shindand
To increase the payload of the helicopters the Kabul regime has taken away rocket pods of some Ml-8 and Ml-17 helicopters. These pods weights 1,000 kilograms. Ml-17 can transport 24 soldiers while Ml-24 can carry only eight commandos.
About the regime's jet fighters, he said that 35 Mig-21 and 21 Su-22 jets were stationed in Bagram.
In Kandahar there were 12 Mig-21 jets which were later transferred to Shindand due to security problems. In Shindand there were 7 Mig-21 and 10 Su-22 jets.
Three months ago the regime had a plan to bring 60 new helicopters and station them in different airports.
Mohammad Asif said that these numbers did not include the Soviet helicopters and other planes left behind after the Soviet withdrawal. There was talk of leaving some of the Soviet planes for the regime before the withdrawal.
He said jets and helicopters use T-l oil which was brought to Bagram through a pipeline running from the Soviet border to Bagram base along the Salang highway. He said that each airport may have fuel supplies for 2 to 3 flights of the planes stationed in it.
Brigadier Asif said that after die introduction of Stinger missiles the Soviets and regime losses of aircraft and helicopters increased sharply.
Measures were taken to protect the planes against Stinger missiles, which included use of dock flares, widening of the security belt of the airports because planes are more vulnerable during landing and take off, and fixing new equipment in helicopters to emit special waves to mislead the missiles.
About the training programs for the pilots, he said that training took
place in Mazar-e-Sharif in Afghanistan, Feronz Academy in Qirghizia in the Soviet Union where helicopter pilots are trained, and another academy which trained jet pilots.
He said that all the pilots have received membership cards of the PDPA but only 40% of the pilots are loyal to the regime. This is a high percentage compared to other sections of the army because the communists are very careful in recruiting pilots.
When asked about the capabilities of the regime airforce to transport food, fuei and ammunition he said that at the present level they are able to supply 20% of the requirements.
In reply to a question as to what step the Mujahideen should take to minimize the risk of the airforce he said that they should announce an amnesty and make sure that the news reaches everyone in the airforce.
He said that pilots living with the Mujahideen could play an important role in persuading others to defect.
Soviet Union
Brigadier Asif revealed that a large number of pilots are being trained in the Soviet Union.
He predicted that the air force will play a key role in the war.
He was of the opinion that the fight with the regime will be very bloody. He said that the regime has armed the party workers. There are a large number of officers who are communists and they have experience in war. " The war will be a tough on," he said.
Commander Asif said that Soviet air support for the regime after the withdrawal of their troops could not be ruled out He had heard Soviet advisers taking about such involvements.
Commander Asif said that he had been in contact with Jami'at for a long time and lately his brother was arrested by the regime in connection with Jami'at. He was about to be interrogated. Making use of the lull created by the Soviet withdrawal he managed to escape.
When asked which Mujahideen leaders the pilots talked the most, he named Ahmad Shah Masood, among die commanders, and Hikmatyar ant Prof. Rabbani among the political leadeis.