AFGHANews Vol 6, No 24, December 15,1990, page ©
Voice of America involved in Afghans internal politics
Abdul Basir Chinzay
The VOA Pushtu Service has recently replaced the world "fundamentalist" with "Ikhwani" to describe the position of some Mujahideen parties. Its use began with Masood's trip to Pakistan, during which an agreement was signed between Hezb and Jami'at to solve their differences by holding elections.
Ikhwani means a member of Ddhwan-ul-Muslimeen, a party found by Hasan-ul-Bana in Egypt. Activists of the Islamic Movement in Afghanistan were first called Ikhwani by the communists in Kabul. Afghan communists portrayed Gamal Abdun Nasser, the president of Egypt, as a progressive and anti-imperialist leader of the third world. They labeled Nasser's opponents as reactionaries who served the interests of western imperialism. Communists sometimes called members of the Islamic Movement Ikhwani and other times Ikhwanush Shayateen (the Devil's Brothers), a term coined by Nasser to denounce his Brotherhood opponents. Daud Khan was the first leader in Kabul who used‘this farm against the Islamic Movement, in an interview with an Iranian papa*.
The communist regime in Kabul called the Mujahideen "Ikhwani" at the start, but later "Ikhwani" was replaced with "extremists” and "inecondlables."
Resurrection of the word by the VOA Pushtu Service reminds mem-bos of the Islamic Movement (the majority of the Mujahideen) of the hostility which communists showed them. It open old wounds. It is worth mentioning that no party in Afghanistan calls itself a Brotherhood, and there is no organizational link between the Brotherhood abroad and the Mujahideen parties in Afghanistan.
It is true that the Brotherhood's literature has had an effect on the mem-bos of the Islamic movement But so has the literature of other Islamic movements and Islamic scholars.
Using the word "Ikhwani" to describe certain parties of the Mujahideen is not correct and does not help the listeners of VOA to undo-stand the situation better. On the contrary, it causes more confusion. Re-invention of the word "Ikhwani" is a politically motivated step taken by Afghans working in VOA who oppose the program of die Islamic Movement. They have become worried about the
agreement between Hezb and Jami'at and are trying to create fear in the minds of other Afghans, by giving the impression that it was a new alliance between factions of the old Islamic Movement directed against the rest of the Mujahideen.
The agreement between the two parties was signed to solve differences between them peacefully, something that every Afghan should be pleased about Jami'at wants to have good relations with all the Mujahideen parties, and improving working relations with one party in no way is directed against others. Jami'at is opposed to further dividing Afghans.
The US government has stated many times that it does nottake sides in internal Mujahideen * politics. How could VOA, which is funded by the US government, allow itself to be used by Afghan political groups for their own ends? Mujahideen want to see an aid to this labeling and expect those working for VOA do their job as journalists, not political commissars of some parties against others.
Editorial
From page (4) os' programme is not an act of war-mongering or a negation of a peaceful solution to the Afghan problem. On the contrary, greater unity among Mujahideen will lead to an honorable solution Unity of the Mujahideen will pass a strong signal to Moscow that its support for the Kabul regime is a wasteful investment. If the Mujahideen are strong and act unitedly, most of the enemy forces will have no choice but to change sides. If the peopleliving in the areas controlled by the regime see that the Mujahideen are united and discipline, they will not be afraid of lawlessness after the fall of the regime and certainly help to bring down Najib's administration.
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
I
m^Utjt1C JUt Li	j\S
Hasty work doesn't succeed.
Meaning: Haste makes waste, or, a watch pot never boils.
jut\S\jt
/ have no time even to scratch my head.
Meaning: I am as busy as a one-armed paper hanger.
That which thunders does not rain.
Meaning: Barking dogs seldom bite.
•ji* J+*
Little talk, more action.
Meaning: Actions speak louder than words.