AFGHAN NEWS
NO. 13
1-7-1986
VOL. II
J£=!
19,6.06

A report from Jegdalik says that Mujahideen of Jamiat ambushed a Ruus'ttv ian convoy proceeding to Jegdalik at Tangai Abrishurai early in the morning. Mujahideen were able to stop the convoy at 6 O’clock.
About 25 Russian and DRA soldiers were either killed or injured and 4 tanks and APCs were destroyed. Two Mujahids were martyred and two injured, the report says.
15.6,06
HERAT PROVINCE
 According to a telephone call received from Jamiat Office in Mashhad of Iran, in a series of operations conducted under Commander Bsmail on the Russian-DRA posts, especially the ’security belt* around the.city, Mujahideen were able to wipe out around 30 posts in the Areas of Darb Kandahar and Darb Malik in addition to a security regiment in the city
 of Herat.                 .
 In this operation, Mujahideen killed and wounded about 200 enemy soldiers and captured 40 nthern. From the Mujahideen side, 5 were killed in
 the operation.’
 14._6_.06
 In a large-scale offensive on Mujahideen bases--in Kakari and Darab , launched by joint Russian-DRA forces and supported from the air and the ground? the enemy faced Mujahideen resistance four days. Twenty soldiers were captured and 16 military vehicles, and armoured carriers were destroyed. Seventeen Mujahids were wounded and 8 martyred in the operation.
 s s 86
 According to a report received from Logar province, the enemy had deployed a large detachment ©f their troops in Kamal Khail villages aiming at the destruction of Mujahideen bases in the area.
 After learning this the Mujahideen attacked the troops and killed around 35 enemy soldiers in 9 hours of continous fighting and seized about lO pieces of AK-47s along with a T.T pistol. •
 Six Mujahids including three women and children were killed during enemy's retaliatory bombardment and shelling of BM-13 artillary which pounded the civilian targets for three days resulting in the destruction . of two villages,
                       PROPAGANDA NEEDS CORRECTION
   Greece is a democratic country and the people there enjoy freedom, which they appreciate and value. In the past Greece has been voting for the U.N resolutions asking for the withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan.
   But the recent comments of the Prime Minister of Greece show that he is :   against destabilization of regions like Libya, Nicaragua and Afg-
 hanistan.