AFGHANews Vol 8, No 16, August 15,1992, page ®
Editorial
Leaders must unite on Gulbuddin's terrorism
Rocket attacks on Kabul by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's Hezb Islami have killed and wounded thousands , of people and destroyed hundreds of public and private buildings and other property in the national capital.	1
Since the formation of the Islamic government in Kabul at the end of April, Gulbuddin had regularly resorted to force in an effort to achieve his political aims.
His motive was simple: a thirst for power at any cost, under any pretext. He marshalled his military and propaganda.campaign against the Islamic government under the banner of opposition to General Dostum's forces' continued presence in Kabul; he hoped to gain the sympathy of some political parties within the government by demanding their withdrawal.	• j
After the communist regime fell, Gulbuddin's forces occupied much of Kabul in an effort to seize control. But they were driven from the capital in short order by Mujahideen and their allies loyal to the Islamic government. Afterward Gulbuddin continued to seek political concessions from the government through negotiations, while maintaining military pressure on Kabul by launching rocket attacks on the city.
Two days before Prime Minister Farida a Hezb nominee, assumed his post on July 6, Hezb rockets killed 100 people and injured 300 - almost entirely civilians - in downtown Kabul. Such crimes mobilized public opinion in favor of a decisive military push against Hezb, but the government adopted a policy of restraint.
Despite Hezb's participation in the government, Gulbuddin chose to stay outside Kabul; and he continued his war against the government. He introduced a representative in the Leadership Council, and one of his party members was named deputy defense minister. But he continued to call the government in Kabul un-Islamic, and jncited his followers to wage a "holy war” for its overthrow.
Two weeks ago, Gulbuddin leveled a false accusation that several thousand fresh Dostum troops had been brought to Kabul, and intensified his attacks against government, forces. He rocketed and shelled many parts of the city, but concentrated his heaviest attacks on Kabul airport Several civilian planes were destroyed, and civilian flights in and out of Kabul were suspended in accordance with international safety regulations. Also as a' result of this shelling, Nawaz Sharifs visit to Kabul and President Rabbani’s visits to Iran and Pakistan vwere cancelled.
Gulbuddin ordered attacks on civilian targets to incite people against government. People had begun to question the government's policy of restraint and had begun to interpret it as a sign of weakness. Realizing this, Hezb forces intensified their attacks to further exploit ordinary people's difficulties.
Only a few days before the rocketing began, Prime Minister Farid left Kabul for Pakistan, and then went on to Iran. He embarked on a state visit to seek neighboring countries',help rebuilding Afghanistan while his party was destroying hundreds of public and private buildings and installations!
Althpugh government forces have been able to push Hezb back from some areas, Gulbuddin's men are still able to target the center of the city with their rockets. This has forced thousands of people to leave their homes to safe areas within and outside the city. The situation will not return to normal until Gulbuddin's forces are pushed so far back that their guns cannot hit the city.
The following conclusions are clear:
• Gulbuddin abused the time he gained through political negotiations, mediated by some well-wishers of the Mujahideen, to prepare for a bigger and more
B3f° To page (8)
Ariana Afghan Airlines took a major step toward expanding its services when it bought three Boeing 727-2000 planes from Air France at a total cost of $12,600,000.
The deal include a spare'engine, repainting of the planes and the training of five pilots, five flight engineers and three co-pilots. .
Dr. Abdur Rahman, Minister of Civi Aviation and Tourism, signed die deal in Paris one week ago. The three newly bought planes have been insured with Lloyd’s of London.
He said Ariana bought the planes to exploit the prospect of the new market created after the fall of the communist regime ai^d rebirth of independent states in Central Asia.
Ariana has currently two Boeing 727s and one Topolov plane operating on international routes. A second Topolov was damaged when it was hit by a rocket fired by Hezb Islami when it was bringing back then President Mujaddidi from an official visit to Pakistan.
The Aviation Minister discussed with the French transport minister the possibility of resuming Ariana flights to Paris. The French side indicated that such flights -cotild take place in the future.
Ariana flights to Western Europe and America were suspended when the former communist regime was found guilty of collaboration with. Al-Zulfiqar terrorists who hijacked a PIA plane to Kabul and killed one of its passengers. Now that the regime has fallen, Ariana is trying to resume its flights to Western Europe.
The Minister of Aviation said the decision ‘to buy the planes was a wise step in view , of developments in Afghanistan and in the region. The planes were remarkably cheep and Ariana had available funds for it, he added. He said with the introduction of three new planes, Ariana would be able to provide better services to its passengers and enhance its ability iii cargo transportation.	'
When the Afghan delegation was busy signing the deal to buy the planes, the Kabul airport came under rocket attacks from Hezb Islami destroying three civilian planes, one Topolov and two Yak-40s.