AFGHANews Vol6, No7, April!, 1990, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Abdul Qadir Wasiqi
Abdul Qadir Wasiqi, Jami'at commander in Shahr-i-Buzurg sub-district of Badakhshan, was bom 37 years ago into a religious family.
He went to Nadeemy secondary school in his home town, besides learning the basics of Islam from his father.
In school, he opposed communist teachers and students, who opposed religion and Afghan traditions. Communists formed the majority of the students and teachers in the Nadeemy school. The communists in Shahr-i-Buzurg, like the rest of Badakhshan, belonged to Setam-i-Milli, a splinter group of the People’s Democratic Party of Afghanistan.
A friend of Abdul Qadir said that out of 15 teachers, only three sympathized with the Islamic movement. The rest support Setam-i-Milli. Likewise 400 students supported the communist party; only 50 students were affiliated with the Islamic movement.
Abdul Qadir and other young Islamic students fought an unbalanced battle against the communists' onslaught. Members of the Islamic movement from Faizabad High Schools helped them, however. Two people who gave Islamic literature and lessons to the students in Shahr-i-Buzurg were Abdul Latif Sediqi and Raha. Later Sediqi became the commander of Shahr-i-Buzurg, but was killed in a conspiracy hatched by Setam-i-Millii supporters using ordinary people.
Abdul Qadir continued his studies in the Agricultural High School in Baghlan province. Despite being very active in politics; he was a good student, and always gained first position in his class.
At one point he was dismissed from high school for three months because of his political activities. Nevertheless he finished school successfully and went to the Faculty of Agriculture at Kabul University.
He was in the fourth class when the communists took power through a coup in 1978. Since he was a known member of Jami'at, he left the university along with some other students and came to Peshawar.
He worked for a while as the deputy head of the Jami'at office in Chitral. In 1979 he returned to Badakhshan and participated in the liberation of several districts and subdistricts in Badakhshan Province, including Shahr-i-Buzurg.
After Sediqi's death the situation in
Shahr-i-Buzurg deteriorated. Members of Setam-i-Milli had infiltrated the Mujahideen's ranks. Wasiqi was sent to the area to correct the situatipn. He succeeded in informing the people of the danger of Setam-i-Milli’s activities. When the people saw him fighting against the Soviets and the puppet regime, they started to take him more seriously.
Wasiqi evolved cordial relations with local ulamas and traditional elders. In some parts of Badakhshan relations between young Muslims activists and traditional religious scholars were not so good. The tension between the two was exploited by the communists. Wasiqi ha? established close links with the Supervisory Council of Jami'at headed by Ahmad Shah Masood. This contact has given him a sound partner from whom he can learn to how organize his forces and fight the enemy more effectively.
Wasiqi is keen to educate the young, and for this purpose he has established six primary schools and three madrasas (religious schools).
Wasiqi commands about 1500 Mujahideen. His immediate target is to liberate his hometown, which is occupied by more than two thousand regime troops and militiamen affiliated with Setam-i-Milli.
Abdul Qadir,who is married and has two children, is famous for his piety and kind treatment of his people. The resistance in Shahr-i-Buzurg is privileged to be led by an educated and honest commander..
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
My drum doesn’t do what I want it to.
Meaning: Used when a servant, child or student does not do what you have told him to do.
jl	ujuauJS jjI	IyiwL
Only stretch your foot to the lenght of your blanket.
Meaning: " Cut your coat according to your cloth:" or, don't overstretch your bounds.
Walls have mice and mice have hears.
Meaning: Secrets told are spread abroad.	.
4J'	4j
A hint for a noble, a stick for the ignoble.
Meaning: A nod for wise man and a rod for a fool.
Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) said:
-.'IS
■to make them long, then I hear mSjm child crying and make
M
the prayers brief because tjknovif the Child’s crying
§!§§!
111!

hurts the mother*”
til
liltl 13 UtC
I . . .	 ^	 1............. ........................