flFGHRtt HtUS 'ifOL.Ki. Kj, 4,    15/2/1983,   PACE 9
   This type of argument also provides a good excuse for the Soviets to ' continue committing their atrocities in Afghanistan under the pretext of defending its borders from the spread of the influence of the other superpower.                                        r
                    A SHORT REVIEW OF THE SITUATION IN BALKH PROVINCE
   This article is based on an interview with Ata Mohammad, Deputy of Mawlavi Alam, Jami'at Chief Administrator (Amir) in Balkh province. He has recently came to Peshawar for consultation with the leader of Jami'at.
                                     ' )
   The year 198? has been a relatively good year for the Mujahideen in the province. Mujahideen scored many victories against enemy targets: Liberating Sholgar district; a successful ambush in Shadian in which a large number of Soviet troops were killed; capturing two posts which were part of the so-called security belt of Mazar city; foiling two enemy attacks in Sholgar and the assassination of a well-known militia commander* for examples.
   The enemy has built a security belt around Mazar to prevent Mujahideen from infiltrating the city. Since there is not enough cover outside the city, large-scale Mujahideen activities have been reduced but they have good contacts inside the city and carry out specific actions against enemy personnel, and military and economic targets.
   The possibilities to increase the level of fighting is great. The gas pipeline is a good target. To do this, there is the need for close cooperation between different groups of Mujahideen; better communication equipments; enough ammunition and specific equipments.
   The Communists are divided as before but it is important to see that new factions are being created by the Soviets. One of these factions call itself 'Kuja1 which indulges in robbery and assassination under the name of the Mujahideen.
   Unity among the existing parties in the area exists but there are also problems which need to be solved in order to do a better job in fighting against the enemy. Political leaders in Peshawar can help by persuading their commanders to cooperate with the Mujahideen from other parties. Jami'at relationship is very good with Sazaan Hasr (a group based in Iran) and in an attack against Sholgar district, Hasr members participated in fighting along with Jami'at.
■ Jami'at fronts in Mazar which are led by Mawlavi Alam have close contacts with Supervisory Council of the North and as long as conditions permit, they try to to co-ordinate their activities. ,
   Balkh province is close to the Soviets border and they have many large bases in this province. The major bases are: Dorahi-Hairatan : (with ammunition factories), Dehdadi Airbase; 18th Division; and a base near the Fertilizer Factory and the Thermal Power Plant.
   Enemy aerial activities have been reduced because of Mujahideen possession of effective anti-aircraft weapons. ; The enemy is relying more and more on long-range rockets and artillery. This tactic has caused a lot of damage to the villages within range of the enemy fire. The enemy also makes'use of wire-guided missile against the MujaMdeen targets.