AFGHANews Vol 5, No 10, May 15,1989, page
Vho is who in the Mujahideen
Com. Mawlawi Alam
Commander Mawlawi Mohammad Alam, head of Balkh province, was 1 xjm 45 years ago in a small village, called Jang, in Nahr-e-Shahi district His father, Haji Ghulam Haider was an influential man in his village. His family economically was in a good shape. His Saracha or guest-room was always full of guests. The gate of his garden was open to the villagers to use it" said Mawlawi Alam's representative in Peshawar.
"There was no school in the village where Alam was bom, therefore his father sent him to the mosque to learn Quran, the basics of Islam and persian language,” said his representative.
Mawlawi Alam was sent latter to Mazar-i-Sharif. the provincial capital of Balkh, to join the Assadia Madrasa (religious school). Alam learned from school as well as from the city itself a lot of things.
Alam completed his school in 1969. "He was not a hardworking student. He passed the Madrasa with lowo* marks," said Aziz a classmate of Mawlawi Alam.
In 1970 Mawlawi Alam went to Kabul University and joined faculty of Islamic law ( Shariat). That time was the most critical time in the campus. Communists and other related parties including the regime wanted to undermine Islam as a way of life. Faculty Of Sharaiat was one of the targets that the communists wanted to deal with. At that time the faculty of Islamic law was the most important center of Muslim activists. Mawlawi Alam was one of them.
After completing college he was appointed as attorney in the Balkh district. It was his third year of his job when the communists took over.
Mawlawi Alam left the job and started to mobilize civilian population around anti-communists movement Those days were the most difficult days of the war against the commu nists. Mujahideen were few in number, scattered in different villages with few pieces of equipment and almost no am munition and none had the experience of fighting." Recalled Mawlawi Aziz, the Balkh representative in Peshawar.
Mazar Sharif being highly strategic and vital for the regime and the Russians, was always a target of the enemy. The government tactic was to allow no bases of the Mujahideen to be built in and around the city.
Government intelligence worked in its full capacity against the Mujahideen
in the province.
Mawlawi Alam contacted the most charismatic commanders of the Mujahideen, Shaheed (Martyred) Zabihullah Khan.
Zabihullah appointed him as the head of his Military Office in Balkh in which he worked for about three years. "Zabihullah was commander, teacher, elder brother and a leader, so Mawlawi Alam learned from Zabihullah not just military tactics but also how to deal with the people in a war situation". Said his representative in Peshawar.
Mawlawi Alam also learned how to build a rival administration. "He was following Zabihullah like his shadow,” said Aziz.
When Zabihullah Khan was Martyred in an ambush by KHAD agents infiltrated into the ranks of Mujahideen, Prof. Rabbani appointed Mawlawi Alam as the Amir (administrative head) of Balkh province. "No one could fill die gap created by the loss of Zabihullah, but Mawlawi Alam at least helped the organization, built by Zabihullah, not to collapse," Azir
His military commander Alam Khan, who is also a lover of late Zabihullah, helped Mawlawi Alam to maintain the military strength of Zabihullah's organization (Now called Zabihullah Shaheed front).
Mawlawi Alam made a council after the death of Zabihullah to decide on . important matters. He included in that Council military commanders, Ulama and elders. The Russians launched two offensives immediately after
Zabihullah's death to destroy his bases in Marmoul but failed.
Mawlawi Alam himself participated in the capture of Sangcharak garrison in 1987. There are two key commanders who help Mawlawi Alam.They are Moslem Atta and commander Alam.
Mawlawi Alam maintained his relations with the Supervisory Council of the North. He sent his commander, Alam Khan, to meet commander Masood in January 1989 to discuss future plans in the North particularly in Balkh with him.
Mawlawi Alam is a soft-spoken and sociable person. He is interested in riding and hunting.
Movement
From page (5)
them or not, and he would not reveal the secrets under any conditions. I am not aware whether anyone violated his commitments.
D- The first major progress in the work of the new organization was drafting of a charter for Jami'at Islami Afghanistan. Educational cells were created on the basis of die charter, so that the members could receive proper religions and scientific training and be ready for fulfilling their responsibilities in their Islamic society.
I was in charge of preparing lessons for the organizational cells. Since issuings related to the basics of belief are especially important, I began from there. I prepared some lessons about "Tawhid" (Oneness of divinity). Members of the cells received the lessons very enthusiastically. They demanded more than I could offer in a certain time limit.