                         !N THE NAME OF ALMIGHTY ALLAH j
AFGHANnews
          A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM I'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BDK 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                 VOL. IV, NO. I, 1/1/1988.
                               OFFENSIVE AGAINST hUJAHIDEEN IN KHOST
 Fierce fighting has continued between Mujahideen and Soviet troops backed by their puppets for some weeks.
 During the so-called Ley* Jirga, Nsjib told the reporters that Khost has been besieged by the Mujahideen and he wanted to open the road Since then, fighting for the purpose of resupplying Khost by land has continued
 Mujahideen bravely fought the enemy ground units in Sato-Kandaw pass and stopped the enemy s armored columns passing through. Aeri&I bombardments against the Mujahideen position and villages have been very intense.
 The enemy have also used heiiborne commando troops against the Mujahideen Several units of the puppet army have been surrounded by the Mujahideen Hundreds of enemy troops have been killed and wounded an d a large number of puppet troops and officers have been taken as prisoners
 The interesting side of the story is the Soviets unusual step to publicize the fighting Soviets claimed that their troops have killed 1500 Mujahideen in fighting around Khost. This claim was immediately rejected by the chairman of the Alliance. M. Younus K halts and put the figure of Mujahideen's casualties to 41 dead and 50 wounded Mr. Khalis also mentioned the displacement of a large number of civilians who have sought refuge in Pakistan
 Fighting still continues and reports' are saving that Soviet forces have made some progress in their slow advance towards Khost. Ac important feature of Khost fighting is unity among the fighters belonging to different political parties.
 The enemy casualties is said to be high, A large number of the enemy tanks and trucks have been destroyed and quite a substantial number of enemy jets, helicopters and military transports planes have been shot down The exact figures of the enemy losses will be available only at the end of the campaign. Mujahideen morale is very high and they have defended their positions heroically.
 Besides the military objective of relieving the garrison town of Khost the enemy has political and propaganda objectives to achieve
 The offensive is launched after the so-called loya Jirga in which they asked the Mujahideen to lift the ssige of Khost, The enemy wants to show that the puppet army is strong enough to achieve what could not be achieved through peaceful means5 this is why they kept the Soviets involvement secret and when the world started to see Soviets direct participation is combat, they fabricated the story of presence of foreign advisors in Khost in the side of Mujahideen.
 In the propaganda field, enemy wants to repeat the Jawar example In Jawar the enemy had a symbolic military victory which was used to make a lot of propaganda It is important that the Mujahideen should toil the world about the mobile nature of their
 war, * 1
                                                                                                          \r i O
                                                                                          1 -J u to y c