HFMIPN NEUS VOL. Ill, NO. 12, 15/&? 190? PfiGE5
                                      DRA DELEGATION IN BAGHDAD
 The prime Minister of the puppet regime, Sultan Ali Keshtmand on the head of a delegation, entered Baghdad on a 4 day official visit on 4/6/1987. This is the first contact on such a high level betveen the balhist regime of Saddam Husain and at the puppet regime.
 The position of the Iraq regime in regard to the puppet regime has been vavering in the past ? years. Iraq sometimes voted for UN resolutions on Afghanistan and other times abstained from voting.
 The Saddam regime vhich invaded Iran is caught in a protracted var vith the Islamic republic of Iran has tried to get weapons from all sources, particularly from the Soviet Onion. A fev weeks ago Iraq regime signed a treaty of friendship vith the Soviets * vhich means support of the Soviets for the Iraq in the var against Iran. In return Saddam regime has started to change its previous policy tovards the invasion of Afghanistan and the invitation from a high ranking puppet regime is a step tovards implementation of that policy Saddam Husain also makes use of his good office to pave the road for the Soviet influence in other Gulf states.
                                      f
 The Iraq regime has taken this-step against the spirit of the resolutions of Islamic conference, Non-align movement and the UH. Nev ties vith a puppet regime vill not improve the condition of Iraq regime vhich is paying the price of hex aggression. This nev development also vill not benefit the puppet regime vhich lacks the support of the people or Afghanistan Thi 5 nev development can be a victory for the Soviets but never fox the puppet regime vhich is doomed to destruction anyway
                      SOVIET AIR DEFENSE BEATEN BY A BRAVE YOUNG PILOT
 A 19 years old German flev a single engine plane to the Soviet Union and landed it in Red Square in Moscov vithout being challenged by the Soviet air defense system. The incident caused a lot of concern among the Soviets and resulted the in retirement of the Soviet defense minister and sacking of some other military officials.
 The incident earned a lot of admiration for the courage of the young pilot and caused a lot of embarrassment for the Soviet leaders.
                                                 *
                                   AFGHAN JEHAD AND THE GULF WAR
 Tvo major tragedies of our times are going on presently in tvo adjacent lands. The Russian invasion of Afghanistan and the Iraqi invasion of Iran took place vithin a short interval of each other. Certainly both vars have produced great casualties and put a blackstain on the pages of modern history. The scale of the tov tragedies, hovever, is incomparable The victim of the Iraqi invasion, i.e„ Iran has 8 population at least three times larger than the invader and enjoys a much stronger economy, not vithstanding all the assistance that Iraq receives from various countries. The victim of the Russian invasion, i.e., Afghanisten, on the other hand, is a small country vith a poor population vho began their resistance vith almost empty hands and have carried on the var against a superpower for seven years against all odds.
 In the small "global village" of our times the eyents in one corner of the earth affect the events in the other corner. Thus, the Afghan Jehad and the Gulf var have certainly affected each other. A detailed analysis of the effects of the tvo vars on each other is beyond the scope of this short article. Vhat ve would like to do is to drav the attention of the reader to some of the negative impacts of the Gulf var on Afghanistan Jehad and varn against complicity vith the Russian 's misuse of the Gulf var.
 It is a vell-recogni2ed fact that the Russian invasion of Afghanistan forms that country 's first step (or perhaps third or forth step if ve take into account the history of the central Asia) in its forward march tovards the verm vaters of the Indian ocean