AFGHANews Vol 6, No 7, April 1, 1990, page ©
'Buzkashi analogy' misleading about Afghan sports, politics
Habibru Rahman
Buzkashi , often called "Afghan polo," has become a metaphor for Afghan politics in the minds of some Western analysts.
These analysts see buzkashi as a game without rules: every horseman in the game tries to snatch the headless calf and put it into a goal, while fighting one another, in order to win.
Barnett Rubin, an American scholar, used this analogy recently in a hearing in the House of Representatives of the US Congress.
This analogy is misleading. Those who use it think that buzkashi is not governed by rules and that no teamwork is involved.
Like any other game, Buzkashi is contested between two teams. It is a rough game which needs brave players - and spectators - but it has both tactics and strategy.
In each team, the fastest and the strongest horse, ridden by a capable horseman called achapandaz , places the calf in the goal with help from the rest of the team. The horsemen in each team block those of the opposite team's while clearing the way for their own leading rider. .
Even in the old days,when the number of horses in each team was unlimited, or more than two teams participated in each game, buzkashi was still played in the same spirit.
The late Prof. Majrooh, an Afghan writer, was the first to describe Afghan politics, by analogy, as buzkashi . But Majrooh was not a rider himself. Buzkashi was not played in the part of Afghanistan where he was brought up.
His impression of the game was that of a spectator who did not know the rules.
If one does not know the rules of any game, it is confusing. Buzkashi, a rough game, can be even more confusing to a Westerner.
Afghan politics has its own rules which must be understood. Afghans are living in difficult times and in a veiy confusing environment At home there are many political parties, reflecting the composition of the society. In exile - where most of the politics is being played - the situation is also complex. This situation, at home and abroad, has forced the Afghans to play their political game in a complicated way. The foreign observers who watch the game from a distance, with a readymade models in their mind, find Afghan politics confusing and sometimes frustrating. They often resort to oyer- simplification and unsuitable analogies.
Once a Western diplomat, who had dealt with Afghan issues for several years, told an Afghan friend that Afghan politics are very sophisticated. He compared them to three-dimensional chess, a game not easy to grasp.
Afghan experts are advised to learn the rules of buzkashi ; it is played with teamwork, strategy and tactics. They should also study three-dimensional chess in order to understand the complexities of Afghan politics.
Afghans cannot simplify the rules of their political games in order to make them understandable to outsiders. A simplified model will provide no answers in such a complicated situation.
Afghan Muj ahideen honor Herat uprising of 1979
Speakers at the meeting to commemorate the 11th anniversary of the Herat uprising against the communist regime strongly criticized Hezb-i-Islami's support for Gen. Tanai's coup, and called it an alliance with communists.
In 1979 Herat revolted against the Khalqi government led by Noor Mohammad Taraki. In that uprising about 20,000 people were killed by the puppet regime’s army.
In the meeting, organized by the Herat office of Jami'at Islami, Prof. Sayyaf, Maulawi Younus Khalis, Prof. Mujaddidi and Prof. Rabbani were the main speakers. All these leaders opposed any association of Mujahideen with any faction of the communist party. They promised to continue Jehad against the communists until an Islamic government is established in Afghanistan.
| A wave of unsolved murders of [Soviet military officers is causing
A§|yBigh Ommtaiid, a BritiJi defence publication has writteh;^!|: ;V:
■	The Soviet high commatid said|
59 officers, from the ranks of lieutenant to general, were murdered last [year* compared with two in 1988 and only one in i|87.	|
■	"Inmost cases the ;:i|^t^:||be attackerslnd the motive for the kiltJ ing remain a mystery*, the newsletter
***
I Najib has told a group of triball elders that during Tarn's coup, the (Soviet Union contacted him and of-! [fered military support, the Christian]
I Senator Gordon J. Humphrey has told VOA that neither the Reagan nor
ted to the Afghan cause the way they |||iid have been. vj,	I
■	-	I
opened the second Jehad Exhibition at Capitli Hotel in *f Islamablii; ;0n March 19. ;
|!/:The.Vfirst Jehad Extiibiti# was tetd in Peshawar Photos, posters, paintings and other [material depicting different asp||t|| ;the Afghan struggle against the Soviet Union and the Kabul communist regime were displayed in in the
Exhibition,	-11111
mm
Peshawar, Frontier Post
The ANP leader has close ties with both Moscow and the Kabul rel
Mujahideen, especially of Hezb Islami Hikmatyar. This is fhft Sfeei&d surprising move by Hikmatyar after his support for General Tanai, the leader of Khalq faction of PDPA. in his coup attempt against Najib. | ...	lip
; A Kuwaiti relief drganiimion has^ | buih a tube well which witi pr|i^p drinking water for 15,000 new
