AFGHANews Vol 8, No 24, December 15, 1992, page ©
100,000 Tajiks take refuge in northern Afghanistan
About 100,000 Tajik refu gees have crossed the Amu river into Afghanistan since the communists regained power in Doshanbe about one month ago.
The refugees include men, women and children. The bulk of the refugees have crossed into Badakhshan, Takhar, Kunduz and Balkh provinces. The local authorities in the north, Mujahideen parties and ordinary people are providing assistance to the refugees. They have been lodged in schools, government buildings and mosques.
The refugees are in dire need of food, warm clothes, shelter and medicine. Most of the refugees have come empty-handed leaving behind all their belongings. The refugees cross the river during the night on improvised barg cs because the soldiers of the CIS who guard the border do not allow them to cross the river into Afghanistan in daytime. There arc reports of the drowning of several hundred of icfugees in the river.
The massive influx of (he Tajik refugees is prompted by the oppressive measures taken by the supporters of the former communist regime. Supporters of the movement of Islamic and democratic reforms are being attacked by supporters of the government. They are driven out of their villages and their houses are being burned. A Western aid worker heard a communist saying that the villages were being burnt so that refugees should not return.
Unrest in Tajikistan began with the 'disintegration of the former Soviet Union. The people were demanding Islamic and democratic • reforms. President Nabiev, the head of the communist party of Tajikistan, was forced to flee, leaving the Islamists and democrats to take control of Doshanbe. Communists provoked regional and ethnic haired to pave way for their return to power. It seems that the forces of the CIS states, stationed in Tajikistan, sympathizes with the communists. The neighboring Uzbekistan which is also ruled by the former communists seemed worried about taking of power by non-communists in Tajikistan.
Afghanistan is being accused by the forces of CIS states of providing weapons for the Tajik insurgents. The Islamic.State of Afghanistan has categorically denied the charges, stating that what was happening in Tajikistan
was an internal problems of that country. While the stated policy of the Kabul is clear, it is difficult to control the border between the two countries. Some people might have tried to get weapons from some individuals and groups in Afghanistan, but the scale of the arms and ammunition crossing the border has always been exaggerated by the security forces of the CIS.
The violence of communists in Tajikistan is directed mainly against the people of Pamir who arc thought to be supporters of the Islamic movement. Aid workers have reported that unarmed opponents of the regime are be-, ing killed in the streets of Doshanbe by communists bands.
The Tajik refugees have been forced to take refuge in Afghanistan in a difficult time. The winter, political problems in Afghanistan and shortage of essential commodities will make provision of aid to the refugees difficult for the Afghan government.
The people in the north sympathize wuh the Tajik refugees for many reasons: Some of the people living in the north had escaped the communist persecution of the Stalin era. They also experienced the tyranny of the Afghan communists and the occupation of Soviet forces. They know how difficult il is to live tinder the communist rule. The people of Tajikistan share common religion, language and culture with the people of Afghanistan. They also have been forced to leave their homes to protect their religion against communists' onslaughts. Sympathy of the local pep-ulauon might help the refugees to feel safe despite economic hardship.
The reaction of the international community to the exodus ol the Tajik refugees has bocn slow.
asruddin's
That's why they. bunged it up
Nasruddin was very thirsts and was happy when he saw bj the roadside a water-pipe whost outlet was bunged with a piect of wood Putting his open moutl near the stopper, he pulled There was such a rush of wate that he was knocked over.
"Oho!'' roared Nasruddin. That’ why they blocked you up, is it? am you have not yet learned any sense!
There is a different time-scale
Nasruddin went to a Turkisl bath. As he was poorly dresser the attendants treated him in t casual manner, gave him only : scrap of soap and an old towel.
When he left, Nasruddii gave the two men a gold coit each. He had not complained and they could not understand it Could it be, they wondered, tha if he had been better treated hi would have given an even large tip?
The following week Nasruddin ap peered again. This ume. of course, h was looked after like a king. After be mg massaged, perfumed and ueatc-with the utmost difference, he left th bath, handing each attendant the small est possible copper coin.
“This," saul Nasruddin, "is for la: [ time The gold coins were for thi time.”