AFGHANews Vol 7, No 10, May 15, 1991, page 0
Salang. His group took part in many operations. In one such operation 35 enemy soldiers were killed and eight tanks and trucks were set on fire. An Iranian journalist, Feriadoon Ganjoor, and a British journalist, Andy Skrzypkowiak, were present to film the attack.
Aziz said Lieutenant Attaul Haq, Panah's deputy, did a marvelous job in the attacks. The Iranian journalist said Attaul Haq jumped on an enemy tank like a leopard attacking a sheep. Many people, including Commander Masood, admired the courage of Attaul Haq. He had been an officer in the regime army, then defected to Mujahideen in the Panjshir in 1982. He went to his native village in Salang to start Jehad against the infidels. He was later martyred by enemy agents.
The last military action in which Aziz participated was the capture of a regime post at the mouth of the Panjshir Valley in Gulbahar in 1988. The death of his elder brother and his own health condition prevailed him from joining the SC army. Making use of his leave, he performed Hajj this year and is recuperating so that he can resume his military activities.
GREEN WAR
The Reconstruction Committee of the Supervisory Council distributed 12000 seedlings of fruit trees to people in Panjshir in March.
The project, financed by Afghanaid, will help the people of Panjshir to produce fruit and restore the beauty of the valley which was damaged during the war.
Most of trees in Panjshir (fayed due to destruction of irrigation channels or were cut by the Soviet and regime troops during several years of occupation of the valley.
The seedlings were bought in Wardak Province and were smuggled through the regime-controlled areas to the valley by private contractors. The committee paid 1200 Afghani for each seedling delivered in Panjshir.
Eng. Kabir, the head of the Reconstruction Committee of the SC said that the project is very useful but shortages of funds does not allow us to expand it to other areas.
Abdul Qayum who supervised the implementation of the project said: 'Twelve thousands seedlings for a devastated valley of about 75 kilometers long is like a drop in a bucket. The local people were very happy but we could not give more than 40 seedling to each village."
He said school and hospitals were also given seedlings.
The Reconstruction Committee has also built a nursery in Panjshir to produce construction wood. The farm, 10 acres in size, is located in Rukha. Cuttings of for the nursery were brought from Ghorband and Andrab districts. The committee hopes that the farm will produces wood within five years
Dear Sir,
The conflict in the Gulf did not only create serious implications for the struggle in Afghanistan but was also signalling a fundamental change in the international political game, what Bush calls "the new world order" and what media in the United States in their typical way immediately abbreviated to NWO.
Of course, Saddam had no right to occupy Kuwait and, of course, it was correct to push him out with whatever means it took. However, the main reason for the US to threw itself into the conflict was not a concern for the little man, for the cause of national independence. They came there for their own reasons, in the short perspective for the oil and in the long term because they saw an opportunity to change the balance of power in the Middle East in favor of their own strategic goals. The small countries of the world, in the Third world or elsewhere, had no choice than to side with the US against Iraq. Foremost, because It was right to do so, that it was in their interest to give Saddam a bloody nose and through that to create a warning example for others who might think along the same lines as he did. But at the same time, I think it is wise to look more closely at the situation which is evolving after Iraq's defeat and to raise ones voice when the US tries to remodel the Middle East map in accordance with its own interests. The old words, that the little man has no other real friends than God, the rifle and other little men, are still very much true, and that goes for nations as well as for individuals.
As for Afghanistan, the conflict certainly had immediate effects like the widening rift between the parties and an even further diminished support for the resistance. The politicians in West as well as among the Arabs got something else to spend their resources on. I don't know what kind of picture which will emerge now after the war but one thing is definitely clear; the political game around the conflict showed above all and in a much more concrete and substantial way than before that the US is left alone as the only guy at the top of the hill. The Soviet Union no longer is able to act as a super power and that the question is how that will effect the US policy vis-i-vis Afghanistan and, unfortunately, I don't think it will be a change in a positive direction but rather a continuation, and now in a faster tempo, of the development we've already seen.
The struggle in Afghanistan fitted into the policy of the United States not because it was a struggle for Islam and national independence but because it had a place in their contest with the other super power.
Now, when the Soviet Union no longer is a serious opponent in the global battle, the priorities of the US will change.
I made a few phone calls to the US, talked to some old friends and asked them if they knew anything about recent shifts and developments in US ptolicy vis-a-vis Afghanistan.
There are strong opinions at the upper levels in the US administration who seem to be prepared to agree on a far reaching compromise with the Soviets on the Afghan issue. Their only demand is that Afghanistan in the future will be a buffer to stop spreading further south. To them it is then not primarily impxrtant who is running the country, i.e., it is a new game and old allegiances will not count. Added to that, I suppose, is their dislike for any kind of Islamic revivalism or fundamentalism.
At the same time the p>eople at the relatively lower levels in State Department goes on as before. They expected an agreement with the Soviets when Shevardnadze came to Washington in November last year; something like negative symmetry, cease fire, transitional body without Najib and then elections, also without Najib but with the Watan party.
As you know, nothing happened Shevardnadze sidestepped; discussed but didn't agree to anything; said that he had to go back to Moscow and consult. Those at State who met him got the impression that he was under pressure, pjossibly from the military. Then he went home and resigned.
The question at State is that the Soviet attitude is getting tougher. They link it to different factors. First, that Gorbachev has distanced himself from the liberal camp and sided with the conservatives. Second, that the military to a larger extent than before has mixed itself into the making of politics and that they don't want Najib to go. It is also mentioned that the party hierarchy in Uzbekistan, who recently during the referendum delivered the great majority of the votes in the republic to Gorbachev, is strongly attached to Najib.
The point is wether this eventually harder Soviet pxjsture will cause a reaction in the administration which will be favorable for the Mujahideen. I don't think so The opinion among foreign ptolicy makers in the US seems to be that there is no Soviet foreign for the moment; everything, also foreign policy, is decided with a domestic persp>ective; that is, to keep the union to gether at any cost. And the US is backing Gorbachev in this, quite simply because they believe that the alternative will be total collapse, chaos and violence which might sptread out over the borders of the Soviet
Tumtopage(8)