flFGMOH NEMS VCL 11 I, HO.1©, !5/9/1997,PRCE 5
Until August 21, they had killed about 200 puppet troops--including at least 10 officers. Three prominent officer killed in the fightings are Major Faiz Muhammad, the Jalal Gazhdum, and Ubaidullah—the commander of pro-Russian militia troops in Faryab.
Mujahideen and villagers life casualties included nine Mujahideen and 15 civilians martyred and AO Mujahideen and 70 civilians wounded.
Until the last week of August--when the report was written--the fighting still continued.
                          JAWZJAN PROVINCE
                                                                                           1
July 24,.1987: According to delayed but reliable reports from Oarqeen find Aqcha districts of Jawzjan province (Northern Afghanistan), Mujahideen of Jamiat Jslami Afghanistan in those districts under the command,of Muhammad Junta and Ahmad Pahlawan . launched an attack on the Russian ships in Amu river on July 24,1987. They destroyed two transportation ships by artillery and rocket Firings killing all the crew. To revenge the Mujahideen attack. Russian forces attacked Qarqeeu directly from the Russian soil on the same day.
Their operations in Qarqeen lasted for eight days. Mujahideen of Qarqeen withdrew to Aqcha. Then the Red Army attacked Aqcha and was abJe to besiege the Mujahideen in Jangal Rareeq village. After fighting very strongly for five days. Mujahideen were forced to find a way For withdrawal* Russians captured Rareeq village and committed a savage massacre of every living being for four hours. Most of the houses were levelled to the ground and all the wheat crop was burned down. Other villages in Aqcha also came under heavy air and ground bombardments.
The report, notes that both Afghans (civi 1 ians and Mujahideen) and Rusians have suffered heavy casualties. The de,tails, however, are not available yet. Shooting down of one helicopter and destruction of eight tanks have been tonfirmed.
                                      HERAT PROVINCE
Sept. 3.3987: According to a report by telephone from J.I.A. office in Mashhad, Iran, Mujahideen of Hazrat Hamza front under the command of Alaudeen Khan launched an attack on the villages under the control of pro-Russian militias in east of the Herat city on August 23, Dy September 2, they had libe rated 17 villages. Mujahideen captured 80 Kalashinkovs and other types of weapons. Three mi 1 i tia commanders--Mualem Junta Gu1, Haji Aliandad, and Abdul Qayura--joined the Mujahideen With their troops. The exact number of casualties from both sides is not available yet.
                                    NTNGARHAR PROVINCE
August 29.1987: Mujahideen of Jamiat,in Mohmand Dara under the leadership of Abdul Zaher attacked enemy’s military posts near the border. The fighting lasted from 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Eleven enemy soldiers were killed and seven were wounded. One vehicle was also destroyed and the posts were damaged.