AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15, 1992, page’ 0
Editorial
While the peace efforts have reached a critical stage, the Mujahideen have won major victories close to the capital. Prospect for a solution of the Afghan problems has become brighter than any other time.
The peace efforts by the UN and Mujahideen activities have the same final aim - replacing the illegal regime of Kabul with a representative government that is able to provide security in the country and fulfil its international obligations.
When the former UN Secretary General announced a five-point formula for a political settlement of the Afghan issue, a stalemate situation prevailed in the country. -
The most important part of the plan was convening an intra-Afghan dialogue between the two sides in the conflict. Since the Mujahideen were not ready to talk with the Kabul regime, the UN proposed a plan based on which third-ranking member of ,the resistance and the regime were supposed to meet and evolve a way for the formation and composition of a transitional government in Kabul.
Developments since the beginning of the current year, has dramatically changed the situation in Afghanistan. Cut of foreign aid and plagued by internal problems, the regime began to lose ground rapidly to the Mujahideen. The fall of Mazar in the north and Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan, has provided the Mujahideen with an opportunity to besiege the capital.
Worried about the developments, the UN envoy has proposed a short-cut to save his plan. UN and the rest of world seem worried that the fall of Kabul to the Mujahideen might lead to lawlessness and instability in the country. The residence of Kabul, influenced by ten years of Soviets and the regime propaganda, seemed worried too.
The orderly handling of the situation in Mazar and popular support for resistance in Charikar have helped in decreasing such fears. Prof. Rabbani has said a good example is set and cities liberated by Mujahideen will be safe.
Now that the Mujahideen are fighting for control of Bagram Air Base and Kabul is within the range of their heavy artillery, peace formula should reflect the new realities. Najib should be persuaded to abandon power and should not try force the Mujahideen to launch attack on Kabul.
The efforts by the Mujahideen to form a council to facilitate transfer of power to a Mujahideen government are not wasted. An agreement that enjoys the support of major Mujahideen parties will help the Mujahideen to run the country properly and makes holding of elections possible.
The Mujahideen victories might be a source of worry for the supporters of the former king who expected to play a major role in the transitional period. They will not get what they expected, but the Mujahideen will treat every Afghan citizen properly and they will be allowed tb play a pile in the reconstruction and political life of the country.
As the Mujahideen advance towards Kabul, the responsibility of Jehad leaders increases. They should forge unity among themselves so that they can work together to take Afghanistan out of the current crises. Jami'at is ready to cooperate with all Mujahideen parties towards achieving this aim.
The victories of the Mujahideen came at a time when foreign aid to them was cut and even they were under pressure from the international community to compromise with the communists. Perhaps this is the will of God to give the fill! credit of final Victory to the Mujahideen. After 13 years of armed struggle, they deserve leadership of the country.
Everyone interested in developments of Afghanistan most have been hearing the name of General Momen since January of the current year. Many Afghans at home and abroad had not heardof him before.
What made him famous overnight was his defiance of Najib's order to remove him from his post as the commander of Hayiatan ganison. Najib had become worried about Momen's control on the strategic town on Uzbekistan border and wanted to replace him with one of his own trusted men. The opposition of Momen to Najib resulted in dramatic developments in the north of Afghanistan accelerating the pace of regime's disintegration.,
Who is Momen?
Abdul Momen, 36, was bom in Pashaie village of Qasan, Andarab District, BaghJan Province.
His father, Abdul Hamid, was a poor man who died when Momen was just five years old. His unde took care of him.
After graduation from Qasan primary school, Momen studied Kabul Military School. He proved to be a good student. After graduation from the military faculty, he first served in Ghazni and then in Jalalabad. He dashed with Shah Nawaz Tanai, the then defense minister of the regime, when he worked in Helmand. The fight cost him his job. After Tanai’s abortive coup, he was posted in^lazar.
A Mujahid from Andarab who knew Momen said he was helping the people of his valley, Andarab, no matter to which side of the conflict he or she bdonged During his service in Jalalabad, he helped refugees families from Andarab to cross the border into Pakistan.', Momen was described by him as a capable officer. He was wounded in fighting with Mujahideen leaving him with a slightly deformed hand Abdul Hakim, one of his brothers, was killed in fighting with the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Salangin 1984..
Momen spent six months in the former Soviet Union during the occupation of Afghanistan, perhaps, to attend training classes. His party affiliation could not be traced but it seems that he was affiliated to Paicham faction because a non-party officer could not have reachedhis position.
The Mujahid from Andarab said Momen tried to contact the Mujahideen and elders of Andarab during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan many times. The contact was never made because some Mujahideen were opposed to the idea. Due to lack of an effective organiza tion, the Mujahideen of Andarab could not exploit such opportunities. It is not dear, however, that Moment warned to persuade the. Mujahideen to abandon resistance or he wanted to assure them of his support
ft is believed that he is just a player on stage and those directing the drama are setting in Kabul.