AFGHANews Vol 7, No 12, June 15, 1991, page 0
The fifth pillar and one of the finest institutions of Islam is the Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. The performance of the Hajj is obligatory, at least once in a lifetime, upon every Muslim, male or female, who is mentally, financially and physically fit.
The Muslim who is of responsible age, in good health, and financially capable must make the Hajj at least once in his or her lifetime.
Financial security in the context of Hajj means he should have enough to pay his own expenses and those of his dependents, and to cover any debts he may have until he completes the Hajj.
The course of Hajj is another unique characteristic of Islam. It is enjoined by God to serve many purposes, among which are the following:
It is the largest annual convention of Muslims meet to know one another, study their common affairs and promote their general welfare. It is also the greatest regular conference of peace known in the history of mankind. In the course of Hajj peace is the dominant theme; peace with God and one’s soul, peace with one another and with animals, peace with birds and even with insects. To disturb the peace of anyone or any creature in any way is strictly prohibited.
It is a wholesome demonstration of the universality of Islam and the brotherhood apd equality of Muslims. From all walks of life, from all trades and classes, and from every comer of the globe the Muslims assemble at Mecca in response to the call of God. They
faith where
dress in the same simple way, observe the same regulations, utter the same supplications at the same time in the same way, for the same end. To God, there is no royalty at all. There is no aristocracy, only humility and devotion.
It is to confirm the commitment of Muslims to God, and their readiness to forsake material interests in His service.
ilt is to acquaint pilgrims with the spiritual and historic environment of the Prophet Mohammad, so that they may derive warm inspiration thereby and so strengthen their faith.
It is to commemorate the divine rituals observed by Abraham and Ishmael (Ibraheem and Isma’eel), who are known to have been pilgrims to the first house of God on earth: the Kabah at Mecca (Makkah).
It is a reminder of the grand assembly on the Day of Judgement when people will stand equal before God, awaiting their final destiny, and where no superiority of race or origin will be recognized. It is also a reminder of the fact that Mecca alone, in. all the world, was honored by God as the center of monotheism since the time of Abraham, and that it will continue to be the center of Islam, the religion of pure monotheism, till the end of time.
In the performance of Hajj it can easily be observed that it is a course of spiritual enrichment and moral rearmament, a course of intensified devotion and discipline, a course of humanitarian interest and inspiring knowledge — all put together in a single institution of Islam.
| The Provincial Secretary of Pmy {fomierly:.tHe PDPA) in [Balkh has mysteriously been killedl jtiJBS office in Mazar city. ■ ||
IPlIle wias lahed after critici^g:-tl^ I'army recruitment policy of the regime in a meeting attended by the | Interior Minister. He demanded that ranking party workers should also| send their relatives to the baulefields, [and oppose! forcible conscription of youths in BaDch Province.
I	•••
Engineer Gulbuddin Hikmatyar [has said that his party has more than one million members and tire number will reach two million in ti^-:oe»: ^| [tore, Shahadat, the offiefet^wg^^ Hezb, reported.
He jlso claimed that hia;|partyj has 250.000 armed men • in|
I Afghanistan , and - - was capable of forming a government without partic-ipationof blher parties.	m
•M	|
|^/]fefisunderstandings • /-between l^inaii Khan, the most senior J^t’at commander in Herat, and some other CJamfat commanders in tire province |have been resolved, Herat represen* five in.Peslav^Tepotted.	|
I Knewed Understanding between different Jarai’at fronts led to coordij nation in recent fighting; rft Zindajart.
I	••*!:
Taraki, the founder bfilire com| jmunist regime in Afgfeanlgan, killed jbjr Hafizullah Amin;" ^--secretly buried in Ghazni province. Sputnik, a Soviet magazine has reveaidL J|
The people of Kabul believed that'Taraki was buried in Qool-i-Aab Chakan cemetery, inside the city. I Some people even set on fire a grave that was thought to belong to Taraki | to show their anger with tire communists.	I
.................................
Four famous singers of Kabul radio and TV', Rahim Gbaffari. Shahrawan, Zahir Howaida and Patang, have taken refuge in India, MIDIA reports.
They were forced to leave Kabul, as the Kabul regime wanted them to sing in all the official functions.
Nashenas, a famous singer, had earlier defected to Pakistan. SarbanJ another Afghan singer and composer, has recently taken ., refuge in Peshawar,
mm