AFGHANews Vol 7, No 22, November 15,1991, page 0
Who's who in the Mujahideen
Cmdr. Sayyed Eqbal
Sayyed Eqbal is one of the Jami'at commanders in Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar. He leads more than 200 armed Mujahideen and is a firm supporter of the Supervisory Council headed by Ahmad Shah Masood.
Eqbal was serving in the army of President Daud in Ghazni when the communists took power.
He returned to Taliqan to take part in Jehad against the communists. At the start, he operated from the base of Mawlawi Makhdoom in Sayyad Valley. His knowledge of weapons and tactics helped him and his fellow Mujahideen in the early stage of the war. They operated in Taliqan, Namakab and Farkhar against regime troops and communist figures.
After the . Mujahideen captured Taliqan at the end of 1979, Sayyed Eqbal moved with his 30 Mujahideen to Khetayan, his native village outside the city. When the Soviets recaptured the city, Eqbal's family was forced to. migrate to Farkhar valley. He and his Mujahideen continued to operate in the area. They attacked the regime posts in the city and Soviet convoys on the Taliqan-Keshm road.
When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, Sayyed Eqbal's three educated brothers returned to the area to assist him in Jehad. Sayyed Hosain was released from jail in an amnesty announced by Babrak Karmal immediately after the invasion. He had been imprisoned by the Taraki regime because of his links with the Islamic Movement Sayyed Burhan, an engineer working in Mazar, and Sayyed Ahmad, a teacher in Rustaq, also joined him.
Sayyed Eqbal was injured in an operation against a Soviet convoy in 1981. He came to Pakistan for medical treatment and returned home some months later.
He' fought in the liberation of Taliqan and against the Setam Milli communist faction.
Commander Eqbal lost his brother. Dr. Sayyed Hosain, the head of the political committee of the Supervisory Council, in the massacre of Jami'at commanders in Farkhar by Sayyed Jamal's band. He had earlier, lost a young nephew fighting against the Soviets in Taliqan.
Despite being a brave commander with a good reputation, Sayyed Eqbal has not been able to expand his influence as widely as some other commanders in the area. His brother Sayyed Burhan puts the blame on shortages of weapons and other resources, but ethnic composition of the area and Eqbal’s lack of formal education are other reasons behind the stow development of his influence.
Eqbal was born in 1956 in Khetayan on the outskirts of Taliqan. His father, Sayyed Hafiz, owned enough land to live a comfortable life. Sayyed Hafiz had had no formal education but had learned to read and write.
Sayyed Eqbal's family had migrated from Ofiyan, a village near Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan Province, to Taliqan in search of a better economic life. The family was respected because they were Sayyed, the descendents of the Holy Prophet of Islam (peace be upon him).
Sayyed Eqbal learned the basics of Islam in the village madrassa. He entered the village primary school but quit going after three years. He began to work on his father's farm, and later he became involved in local trade. When his father died- in 1969, his elder brother, Sayyed Abrar, looked after the family.
Eqbal is fond of horseback riding and playing buzkashi. He does not smoke cigarettes because it was considered a bad habit in his family. He is married and has seven children.
Teheran diplomat meets youth leader
Iranian Charge de’ Affair in Kabul met with a leader of Youth Union of Afghanistan in Kabul on October 13. The Iranian diplomat discussed problems of mutual interest with Abdul Samad Karmand, the deputy chairman of the Union. The Youth Union, former Youth Democratic Union, is the youth wing of Watan Party headed by Najibullah.
H Six agents of the Kabul regime I were sentenced to life imprisonment! by a special court for suppression of totrorisro to Lahore on October 30. j 0 They were found guilty of ex-ploding a bomb in Rawalpindi oh] June 2, 1987, to which seven people [iware injured.	■
P The UN says some 34jO0O families, representing about 170,000 indif [viduals, returned to Afghanistan in the past year, making use of the UN
They returned home under the
to July 1990s. There are more than I [three millkto^ refugees livtogl to Pakistan and about two million in ban.	■
*## ■
I Unkown gunmen wounded Kiel (Director of the Australian Relief Committee and his brother near [Peshawar on October 30.
| They were admitted to a hospital | and are said to be out of danger, ■
■HA*3310*? Andrutsh, the former Soviet commander of Jalalabad, has [embraced Islam, Alraoslimoan news-| papa- of Jeddah reported.	■
He said that during his presence I in Afghanistan, the Mujahideen hadj invited him to Islam but that be did) not accept it. After the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan he re-1 turned to his native city, where be reviewed the Mujahideen's invitation and converted to Islam. He has beenl btoHHed All.	H
r I
[..Several hundred refugees staged] ((rally to Peshawar oo October 31 to] ■condemn the Middle East peace con-
■HHezb Islamt^BJpflBI
Ittihad {Prof. $ayyaf> parties. They said the Madrid conference was an American conspiracy to deprive toe
mm
] h Artyom Borovik, a Soviet jourl naijst and the author of Hidden] War', has said Soviet: Union should] pay war reparations to Afghanistan. I He is the leading Soviet journalist! who covered the Afghan war. His] book tells the story of the Afghani tragedy from the Soviet side, j