1W THE NAME OF ALMIGHTY ALLAH |
                         A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN
                                POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                                        VOL. Ill NO. 8, 15/4/1987.

WHEN THE BIG TRAGEDY STARTED
 27 April marks the 9th anniversary of the communist coup in Afghanistan. This was one of those events which brought the greatest tragedy of our time, the occupation of % Afghanistan and the subsequent 9 years of war.
 The coup which was carried out by communist officers had the backing of the Soviets. -Daud vho vas once a close ally of the Soviets had become suspicious about the loyality ~ of the communists and the friendship of the Soviets. He van ted to decrease the dependence on the Soviets and communist elements at home. The Soviets did not like this. Communist officers in the army vho were mainly trained in the Soviet union made the coup. In the first fev days of fighting between the tvo sides. 20,000 Afghans vere killed.
 This coup brought to power a party called PDPA (Peoples Democratic Party of Afghanistan) which was composed of two major factions namely Khalq and Parcham. They had joined together on the advice of the Soviet advice to end the rule of Daud who had helped them grow and even had shared power with them.
 the communists who had won the battle against Daud started to impose the Soviet way of life on the people of Afghanistan. They attacked all aspects of Afghan life including the private family-life. Besides confiscating the property of the people under the guise of land reforms, they imprisoned thousands and killed thousands of others whom they thought vere a potential problem in their way. These people included religious leaders, professors, students. ex-MPs and officials and ordinary men and women. The communists changed all the educational institutions into patty propaganda classes and centers for the regime's activities. The regime distributed guns to school children to defend their villages against imaginary counter-revolutionaries. All that was done to frighten people against raising their voices against the crimes they were committing.
 It was too much for the Afghans who had lived a free and honourable life in the past. Islam, the religion in which 99% of the people believe had (ought them to fight against evil with the best possible means. Peaceful protests vere answered with imprisonment and murder and people were pushed to the extreme They were forced to the last option, the armed struggle. Those who try to put the cause of insurgency against the regime elsewhere can make a great mistake. The causes were home-made.
 From April 1978 to December 1979 the situation witnessed a great change. The peace-loving people of Afghanistan were engaged in a war against the communists from border to border all over Afghanistan. Tarski was killed by Amin; Bebrak and Najib were sent to exile and even expelled from their party Most of the country-side had come under the control of the Mu jahideen.The 80.000 strong army was reduced to 2,000 and all the equipment went to the resistance All that was done without aid from oUtside. The communists made use of every thing to break the resistance but proved to be ineffective. The Peoples Democratic Party was facing the peoples' disapproval. The hammer of the Muslim worker and the sickle of the Muslim farmer were pounding the heads of the communists and cutting their roots. The Soviets vere sending money, weapons and even advisors to help the regime defend itself. All proved to be ineffective and very late.
                              i
 The Soviets intervened, killed Amin, brought Babrak and blamed Amin for all the problems of the past. The coup ended with the invasion and the civil war gave its place