INTKE NaME OF ALIAS
 Published fortnightly by Jami'at Islam! A/gbaoiaiam
Vol 4. No 8                                      April 15. 19S8
         Mujahideen reject Geneva agreement
   THE GENEVA agreement was signed on April M by the puppet regime and the government of Pakistan in an attempt to bring peace in Afghanistan. The Resistance says it will refect any agreement which it is not part of and will continue its armed struggle.
   According to the agreement Pakistan and Afghanistan will not Interfere in each others internal affairs; Afghan refugees will return voluntarily to their coumtry; Soviet forces will leave Afghanistan in nine months and the United States and Soviet Union will guarantee the accord.
   The Geneva indirect talks between Pakistan and the Soviet-backed regime in Kabul which have continued for more than five years were taking place under the auspices of the UN. The Afghan Resistance has been rejecting the Geneva proximity talks since the start. The Resistance reasoned that the talks were taking place between irrelevant parties and demanded direct talks with the Soviet Union.
   When asked to comment about the Geneva treaty the spokesman of the Alliance said; “We will not abide by
any agreement which we are not part of'
   The two issues which were raised in the last round of talks were the symmetry issue raised by the American Government and the idea of the formation of a broad-based govenment tabled by the Governemt of Pakistan.
   On the symmetry issue, it was decided that the two superpowers could provide arms to both sides of the conflict but the signing of the accord by Pakistan will make it practically impossible to give any aid to the Resistance. Therefore, the statement on symmetry will only help the puppet regime in Kabul which will recieve arms from the USSR and the Reagan administration in its domestic politics.
   The Reistanee will not be able to receive aid from outside because there is no way to transport to the country.
   It is believed that the symmetry issue was raised to make the agreement acceptable to the US Congress and helping the resistance was not its primary purpose. The issue of a broad-based government raised by Pakistan was dropped from the formal agreement. To sweeten the pill, the UN
mediator, Mr, Cordovez in his personal capacity will try his best to help Afghans to form a broad-based government after the Geneva accord has been signed.
   The Resistance source believe that the possibility of any progress in forming a broad-based government acceptable to the Resistance through the private efforts of Mr. Cordovez is small.
  Russians
   capture
    oilfield
 THE SOVIETS have recently captured an oilfield and established new posts in-QaiSar district close to the Afghan-Soviet border,
   Khan Merza, a Jami'at commander in the area, said in an interview that an oil well which was drilled in As bab-e-Kahf area of Qaisar during Daud's regime came under control of the Mujahdieen after the April coup of 1975.
   About six weeks ago,
 Soviet troops captured the area and established permanent posts.
   According to Khan Mirza, the Soviets have started exploration work to develop the well and exploit it.
   North Afghanistan has large deposits of oil and gas. The Soviets got the monopoly of exploration In the area during the King s rule.
 It is believed that the Soviets pay a much lower price than the International market for the Afghan gas.