AFGHANews Vol 6, No 4, February 15,1990, page Q~~|
Soviets' casualties in 9-year
war
The Soviet Union has released new details of its casualties during the Afghan conflict.
The new figures, which have been attributed to the General Staff, are broken down by year and differentiate between total losses, combat deaths, and losses among officers.
The new figures put the Soviet death toll between 1979-88 at 13833, of which 11381 (82 per cent) were combat fatalities. The remainder died through careless handling of their weapons or as a result of wounds or illness.
Deaths of officers during this period amounted to 1979, or 14 per cent of total losses. Of these, 1755 were killed inaction.
The new figures indicate that
Soviet losses peaked in 1984, when total deaths numbered 2343, including 305 officers. The lowest full-year figure was 759, in 1988.
The losses during the last phase of Soviet withdrawal, in January-February of 1989, were exceedingly low: 53, including 10 officers. v
Previous Western estimates have suggested that up to 50,000 Soviet soldiers may have been killed in Afghanistan.
♦The same benefits accorded to Afghan veterans will also apply "to servicemen who took part in combat actions in Vietnam, Syria, Egypt and other countries," acknowledging Soviet combat roles in those nations.
Source: Jane's Defence weekly
The Afghan Complex
In an interview with Sovetskaya Rossiya (15 November) Colonel General Boris Gromov, the last commander of the 40th Army in Afghanistan and t^e "last man out" of the country, spoke of the "so-called 'Afghan complex'. A . survey by Moscow University School of Psychology found that 60% of Afghan veterans feel the psychological impact of the war, a third of them in an acute form. The Afgantsy( Afghan veterans) have a reputation for abnormal aggression and for outbursts of fierce anger against those who question them too persistently about their experiences. At the same time, Afgantsy are often portrayed in the press as a force for social renewal, model citizens in their patriotism and concern for others. Clearly, as General Gromov noted, the impact of
the war depends on the personality of the veteran. The "Afghan complex has
positive and negative sides and it
seems that Soviet society and indeed
the Soviet Army itself find both aspects
hard to cope with.
Hooligan Behavior
•Afghan veterans have been encouraged to join the POSM (Workers' Detachments for Cooperation with the Militia) and have helped arrest drunks, speculators, illicit distillers and so on. But there is a large element among the Afgantsy whose enthusiasm for stamping out corrupt and decadent groups in society is hard to distinguish from plain hooliganism.-"Punks'* and other young-
sters favouring western pop music and "Mafioso" have been beaten up by Afgantsy and it was outraged Afgantsy who destroyed the grave of a well-known Moscow "mafioso" buried next to a soldier killed in Afghanistan.
Sometimes there is not even the excuse of righteous indignation. In August 1988, Airborne Forces Day was marked by drunken disturbances in Moscow and several other cities. In October this year it was said that 3,000 Afghan veterans were serving prison sentences. Difficulties in adjusting to civilian life are said to have contributed to this. It is also admitted that some veterans acquired the drug habit in Afghanistan.
(Extracts from an article by Michael Orr published in Soviet Analyst of date 20 December 1989.)	*
Soviet Mujahid Jailed
A Soviet citizen has been sentenced to eight years in prison on charge of having contact with the Afghan Resistance. The Soviet News Agency TASS reported that Abdul Hamid Dablatev allegedly crossed the Soviet border of the Repbulic of Tajikistan and joined the Mujahideen. After receiving training he returned to Tajikistan to organize an underground group of Soviet Muslims." He was captured by the security forces and sentenced to jail The people in the Soviet Central Asian republics have ethnic and religious ties with the. Afghan people.
The Political Councillor of the Soviet embassy in Islamabad has said that Najib is ready to transfer power to a transitional government headed by*the ex-king.
•••
About five thousand, refugees demonstrated on January 25 in front of the President of the AIG in Peshawar to express their opposition to the method of elections proposed by the AIG.
Apparently the demonstration was organized by Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar). The protestors had also raised slogans against the ex-king, Mohammad Zahir Shah.
' •••
Commando- Atiyatullah of Maimana told AFGHANews on January 29 that recent reports arriving from Faryab refer to acute shortages of food in that province. .
He said that the food shortage has made life extremely difficult for the people of that province.
•••
A spokesman of the Azarbaijan popular front said in Moscow that if the Soviet troops are not withdraw from the province, Azeris willstart a guerilla war against die Red Army like that of the Afghans. One day after his statement he was arrested in Moscow.
•••
The AIG has called for an emergency meeting of the OIC Foreign Ministers Conference to discuss the situation in Kashmir and Azerbaijan. The statement of the AIG adds that the Afghan people can not remain indifferent towards the suffering of their Muslim brothers.
•M
Sixty war-wounded Afghan children will be treated in a private hospital in Birminghah, UK free.
The first group of four were flown to the UK on January 16. The wounded children will stay with families of the Muslim community in the Midlands while they undergo medical treatment.	 ■