AFGHANews Vol 8, No 16,.' August 15, 1992, page © ^
Afghanistan am} Iran have agreed to cooperate in the fields of trade, health, culture, postal matters and the fight against drug trafficking.
An understanding letter in this regard was signed by officials of the Afghan Foreign Ministry and the visiting Deputy Foreign Minister of Iran, Allauddin Brojerdy, in Kabul on July 26.
The two sides agreed that economic, political and cultural relations between the two countries should be expanded and that a joint commission of the two countries will determine the fields of cooperation.
The two sides have agreed to allow formation of border markets for the purpose of expansion of border trade. A joint commission will propose the places and form of such markets.
Iran and Afghanistan agreed to speed up formation of a tripartite committee along with the UN to supervise the return of Afghan refugees from Iran.
Iran has agreed to train Afghan doctors and build hospitals in Afghanistan. The minister of health of Afghanistan has been invited to visit Teheran.
Iran has also agreed to train Afghans in the field of post and comT m unication and shown readiness to provide facilities for the' transit of Afghan post through Iran.
During his stay in Kabul, Borjerdy met with President Rabbani. He extended An invitation from President Rafsanjahi to Prof. Rabbani to visit
Mazar-i-Sharif. The Afghan government can reciprocate by opening a consulate in one of the cities of Iran. Afganistan has one consulate there, in Mash'had.
The Islamic Republic of Iran has appointed Mahyuddin Najafi as its ambassador to Afghanistan.
Najafi dealt with the' Afghan issue when he worked as the Iranian consul in Peshawar, Pakistan, and later as the head of Afghanistan desk of the Foreign Ministry in Teheran.
Iran was slow in establishing full diplomatic relations with the new Islamic government, and seemed in no hurry to extend full economic support. Iran found it difficult to cooperate with a government that did not include Hezb Wahdat, a party claiming to represent a majority of the Shia community.
Although Hezb Wahdat has not fully participated in the government, it has introduced one of its famous commanders as the deputy defense minister.
Iran can help Afghanistan in provision of fuel, food and other essential commodities. The Islamic:government is eager for cooperation with neighboring countries but is also worried about expansion of influence of foreign countries beyond recognized diplomatic levels.
Press reports had indicated that Iranian planes carrying relief goods reached Kabul and*Mazar without going through normal procedure of getting permission in advance. There were also reports of the Iranian Red Crescent Society's involvement in distribution of relief goods inside Afghanistan without first getting permission from Kabul.
The Reason
Nasruddin went to see a rich man.
'Give me some money.’
’Why?’
T want to buy an elephant.’
’If you have no money, you can’t afford to keep an elephant.1
’I came here, said Nasruddin, ’to get money, not advice.’
Why don't you?
Nasruddin went to the shop of a man who stocked all kinds of bits and pieces,
'Have you got nails?' he asked.
’Yes.’
’And leather, good leather’?
'Yes.'
’And twine?’
’Yes.’
'And dye?'
Yes.’
Then why, for Heaven’s sake, don’t you make a pair of boots?’
Face the facts
Nasruddin was crying bitterly one day.	.
What's the matter, Nasruddin?' asked his neighbor.
’I am sad today, neighbor,' replied Nasruddin, because my.wife is ill.'
But I thought it was your donkey that was sick,’ replied his neighbor, bemused.
Yes, it is really, but I am letting myself get used to the shock by easy stages.' ■
Iran. The invitation was accepted and the visit was'to take place from August 8 to 9 but due to security problems, caused by Hezb Islami rocket attacks on airport, the visit was postponed.
Borjerdy also met with Prime Minister Farid, Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood, Foreign Minister Sayyed Sulman Gailani and other government and party leaders.
Talking to BBC, Brojerdy demanded a permanent end to fighting between different groups in Kabul. He denied the allegation that most of Iran’s support was given to Shias.
On the issue of opening new consulates in Afghanistan, he said the previous government had agreed to allow Iran to open its consulates in Herat and