.AFGHANews Vol 5, No 1, January 1, 1989, page 6
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Abdul Karim
Commander Abdul Karim, Jarai’ai administrative head of Badghis province, 35, was bom in a small village called Tagab-e-Ismaiel in the center of Badghis province.
Abdul Karim was sent to die mosque of the village to learn the fundamentals of Islam and then to the Hanzela Badghisi High School. After completing high school, he went to Kabul and studied in Darul Moalemeen (Teachers Training Institute) in the field of English and Dari languages. He then went to Badghis and worked as a teacher for five years in the same high school he was graduated from.
Abdul Karim was one of the first six persons who organized people in Badghis against die communist regime in 1978. He was chosen by the Mujahideen to be the administrative head of Badghis right from die first uprising against the communist regime.
"I received Jami’at membership card form the party office in Mash-had, a city in eastern border of Iran, in late 1978 and a year later I came to Peshawar and met Prof. Rabbani, the leader of Jami'at, and now this is my second trip to Peshawar", said Commander Abdul Karim one week
ago.
Abdul Karim has participated in many operations against the Russians in Qala-e-Naw, Band-e-Sabzak and Kotal-e-Khaki which resulted in the capture of the government garrisons and destruction of many military vehicles, tanks and armored cars. In these operations* hundreds of guns were captured by the Mujahideen.
Commander Abdul Karim is a Tajik an ethnic group which forms the majority of the populations in Badghis. "About 90% of the whole province is under control of Jami'at Island. We have established good relations with commander Ismail Khan of Herat and some commanders from Faryab province. We have a council in which different committees such as health, education, agriculture, judicial and financial are working", said commander Abdul Karim.
According to the commander there are five small mobile medical clinics in the province. A monthly bulletin called "Ferogh-e-Inqilab" (Light of revolution) is published in the Badghis province in which the Commander writes articles. Commander Abdul Karim is married and has six children.
Soviets resume troops pullout
Soviets have resumed pulling out military advisors and their families, diplomatic sources in Kabul have reported.
Three special planes flew out an unknown number of Soviet advisors from Kabul in mid-December. The sources also said that preparation for 1 the departure of the remaining 50,000 troops also has begun.
Soviets suspended withdrawal of their Hoops in February when the communist regime showed weakness in
fighting against the Mujahideen.'
Soviets withdrew half of their troops in accordance with the Geneva accords signed on April 14. They are obliged to take the rest out by February 15,1989.
The US govemement, which is a guarantor of the Geneva accords, has expressed concern over foe continuation of Soviet involvement in offensive operations. US officials say that such operations contradicts foe understanding in Geneva in which foe Soviets had assured the other side that they will not involve in offensive operations.
US State Department officials have raised the issue with foe Soviet side. The Soviets-who publicly announced the suspension of troops withdrawal, have not made any public statement about resumption of withdrawal.
The Mujahideen sources have not confirmed foe resumption of foe troops withdrawal. In another development, foe Soviets have decreased the staff of their embassy to 100 persons.
Refugees' rally condemns Soviet invasion
A huge meeting of Afghan refugees in Peshawar denounced the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan nine years ago and promised to continue the struggle for foe freedom of Afghanistan and for the establishment of an Islamic government.
The meeting which was organized by foe Islamic Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen was held in Peshawar on December 27th, foe anniversary of foe Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979. Speakers representing different parties of foe Alliance asked for the total withdrawal of foe Soviet troops.
At the end of foe meeting a resolution was passed in which the continuation of armed struggle until the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan was promised.
The resolution asked foe Soviets to leave Afghanistan as soon as posable so that Afghans could determine their future. It asked the release of foe Mujahideen prisoners and foe return of Afghan children from the Soviet Union.
The resolution rejected foe Gorbachev's proposal for a ceasefire and foe holding of an international conference on Afghanistan and demanded compensation for foe damages the Soviets have inflicted on Afghanistan.
The resolution asked for guarantees that the Soviet Union will not interfere in the affairs of Afghanistan in foe future.
The effigy of Najib, the head of Kabul regime, was burned during foe meeting.
Similar protest meetings were also held in some other cities of Pakistan and some capitals of the world.
Khalili visits Vienna
A political officer of Jami’at Islamic of Afghanistan participated in a conference in Vienna on the occasion of ninth anniversary of foe Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
The conference in which Masood Khalili spoke was held on 13th December 1988 at the University of Vienna and was sponsored by foe Austrian National Union of Students. At the conference many Austrian students, friends of Afghanistan, Pro. Felix Ermacora, Mr. Yankovich, the ex-foreign minister of Austria and some Afghan refugees living in Vienna participated.