AFGHANews Vol 8, No 24, December 15,1992, page I
Hezb threatens to kill POWs
Hezb I slam i has threatened to kill Russian POWs and attack its diplomats if Moscow continues to print Afghan cun-ency.
Hezb claims that the Islamic government in Kabul spends the money for political and military purposes.
Mangal Husain, a representative of Hezb in Islamabad, told the Russian diplomats there that the 'field commanders' of that party had threatened to kill Russian POWs if Russia continued to provide Afghan currency to the government.	^
The previous government had signed an agreement with Moscuw to print Afghan currency and Russia have been providing Afghan currency to the Islamic government in accordance to the previous agreements.
The allegation of Russia's interference in the affairs of Afghanistan was first leveled by the Hezb leader Gulbuddin Hikmatyar in a letter to the Russian embassy in Islamabad some months ago.
Moscow has expressed worry about the safety of the Russian POWs.
Refuting the allegations of interference, Russian government said relation sbetween the two countries were based on mutually accepted agreements and that country was not interfering in the affairs of Afghanistan.
Mujaddidi
Prof. Mujaddidi, the first president of the interim government, paid a private visit to India where he was received by the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of that country. The Indian government provided hotel accommodation to Mujaddidi and dozens of his bodyguards.
Mujaddidi described his visit to India as 'private',- 'nonpolitical' and 'spiritual', refusing to disclose the contents of his talks with the Indian leaders. Mujaddidi, who wished to become the president of the country, might have discussed political and military situation in Afghanistan with his Indian hosts.
Ironically, the visit of Mujaddidi with the Indian Prime Minister coincided with the destruction of the Babri mosque by extremist Hindus.
The warm welcome accorded to Mujaddidi, a Muslim and spiritual leader, by the Indian officials might have
It is interesting that Hezb is threatening to kill Russian POWs after the establishment of the Islamic government while Afghan currency was also being printed in Russia during the former communist regime. Hikmatyar had never threatened to kill POWs because of Moscow's support to the communist regime.
The UN Secretary-General Boutros Ghali has called for the release of all the POWs of the former Soviet Union ir. Afghanistan. He said ICRG was ready for cooperation in securing the release of POWs.
Iona Andronov, a member of the Russian Parliament , and advisor to President Boris Yeltsin, visited Kabul on November 25 to discuss the issue of POWs with the Afghan authorities. He met with President Rabbani. Defense Minister Ahmad Shalt Masood and other officials. He asked for the release of Russian POWS.
President Rabbani has asked for reopening of the Russian embassy in Kabul, which was closed during Hezb's rocket attacks on Kabul in August.
The threat by Hezb could be a factor to the shortage of Afghan currency in the banks. Moscow may now be acting with care not to provoke Mr. Hikmatyar. It seems terrorism has been at least partially successful.
visits India
been designed to help the Indian government in its domestic politics at a time when Muslims were critical Delhi’s handling of the Babri mosque issue.
Making use of his private' and spiritual' visit to India, Mujaddidi attended a gathering of Afghans in the Afghan embassy in Delhi and talked to them about the situation in Afghanistan. Although there is no information about the contents of his talks, Mujaddidi has generally been un-. able to refrain from criticizing the government and launching personal '-s on President Rabbani and Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood.
Organizing such anti-govemment . meetings in Afghan missions abroad is nothing new or strange. Old diplomats, and even some newly-appointed ones, have not hesitated to speak against the Islamic government in public and to allow the embassies to be used by the opponents of the government for propaganda reasons.
Swedish Commits celebrates its tenth anniversary
The Swedish Committee Afghanistan, a private relid ganization, celebrated the t anniversary of its establishr in Peshawar.
This committee gives ai Afghanistan in the fields health, education reconstruction.
Its main office is Peshawar while it has opene regional offices in Tak Jalalabad and Wardak.
The Swedish Committee fomicd by volunteer men and wo who sympathized with the scrugg Afghans for freedom. The comn has a central office in Stockholm 25 local committees operating in d cm parts of Sweden.
The projects launched by the rriucc arc funded partly through vate donations and partly thr Overseas Development Fund ol government of S weden.
One of the people who pla> leading role in expansion of the of die committee was Anders F; the director of the committe-Pakistan, who is now working for lief organization in Ethiopia.
The Swedish Committee has a great deal of support work fo cause of freedom of Afghanistan.
Parwan peopl live in peace
Government offices, schools business are open in Charikar provincial capital of Parwan. A the deputy Amir of Jami'a Kapisa and Parwan provinces, been appointed the governo Parwan. The transfer of powi Charikar was orderly, and go* ment and private properties protected.
The road between Charikar tsabul is open, but some Mujah . groups have established check along the road. They collect toll: take government vehicles and pro passing along the road. Hezb Isl joining the government in Kabu not improved the situation.
The Defense Ministry has av. the use of force to provide securh the road so far, hoping that po) measures could solve the problem.