Vol 5, No 21
November 1, 1989
Scuds land at training center
Two Scud missiles landed an abandoned a training camp of the Mujahideen in Keshm valley, injuring some fanners, two weeks ago.
The two rockets landed in the middle of camp, showing the degree of their precision.
The incident revealed the poor performance of Khad, regime's secret police, because the information it had provided was out of date. The training camp had been abandoned some weeks before.
Two weeks ago the Kabul regime also fired three heavy rockets into the Panjshir valley, but caused no casualties. The target seemed to be group of buildings at the mouth of the valley, used as offices of central zone of the Supervisory Council. The rockets, which were either Scuds or BM-27s, missed the targets and landed oh a mountainside.
The New York Times, quoting American officials, say that the Kabul regime has fired about 900 Scud missiles against the Mujahideen since February of the current year. Each rocket costs $1,000,000. They are fired with the help of Soviet military personnel
'Illegal entry' costs Arab youth 20 years in regime's prison
A Saudi Arabian, Hassamuddin Mahmood, was sentenced to 20 years imprisonment for illegal entry into Afghanistan. A Spanish writer, Garcia, was sentenced for three years on the same charges.
Hassamuddin Mahmood has been accused of spying and armed encounter with the regime forces.
The Spanish writer, who entered Afghanistan to gather information for a' book, was arrested some time ago.
Soviet military advisors sent to Kunduz province
The Supervisory Council of the North has reported that the Soviets have sent military advisors to Kunduz and have sent new advisors to Kabul to help the regime against the possible Mujahideen attacks.
The report does not give any figures for the advisors sent to Kunduz nor for newly arrived advisors in Kabul..
The US State Department has confirmed the presence of Soviet military advisors in Kabul, and has asked the Soviets to withdraw them.
According to American officials.
though there is no direct reference to the withdrawal of Soviet advisors in the Geneva accords, the US believes that the withdrawal should include the advisors as well.
The Kabul regime has admitted the presence of Soviet advisors in Kabul and says that they are not involved in combat activities against the Mujahideen.
No information is available about the number of Soviet advisors who help the regime in the war against the Mujahideen.
Moscow increases military
assistance to Kabul regime
>n important meeting tool place between Ahmad Shah Masood and Commander Abdul Basir Khalid last week in the Keshm valley.
At the meeting the two commanders discussed ways of coordinating their military activities.
Commander Basir Khan, a famous Jami’at commander in Badakhshan, has agreed to cooperate with the Supervisory Council
Basir Khan's close contacts with the Supervisory Council will strengthen the position of the Mujahideen vis-a-vis the communist forces.
Comander Basir Khan has control over the surrounding area of Faizabad, . the provincial capital of Badakhshan.
His cooperation with the Supervisory Council willhelp his forces to become better organized and uainded.
The news of understantdin reached between the two commanders has delighted Jami’at members.
American sources have reported an increase in Soviet military aid to the Kabul regime during the current month.
American media, quoting U.S State Department sources, said that Soviet aid has now reached $400 million per month. The previous rate was $250 to $300 million each month.
The increase could be a precautionary measure to supply the regime with enough arms and ammunitions before the onset of winter, when supplying1 Kabul becomes more difficult
The level of the Soviet commitment to support the regime has surprised many Western observers, who thought previously that Gorbachev might not lend such support to the Najibullah government for the sake of improved relations with the West
The Mujahideen, on the other hand, are having problems getting the massive supplies of aims and ammunition needed to wage the new kind of war which they now face.
A large scale offensive war needs a lot of resources.
non