i
r
Vo1 6> N° 1__nnn^R^L{	January	1	,1990
Najibullah’s ’Heroes harass Kabul’s people
Regime militias have been accused of creating problems for the safety of the people of Kabul.
Recently a group of Jawzjani militiamen who are stationed in the northern defences of the city indulged themselves in armed robbery %nd indecent attacks on women in the city.
Jawzjani militiamen are said to be good fighters and they were brought by the regime to Kabul after the Soviet troops withdrawal. They also have been fighting in other fronts as well. Kabul regime leader, Dr. Najibullah once called them "national heroes". People speculpte that they are Soviet soldiers from Central Asia, but the regime denies this.
The Kabul regime has been using militias from one area against resistance in different areas to create misunderstandings between people of different
An ex-minister of the regime and two diplomats have defected to the Mujahideen.
Pacha Gul Wafa, 44, a minister of Civil Aviation and Tourism in Dr. Hasan Sharq’s cabinet has recently crossed the border to Pakistan. At a press conference held in Peshawar on the 18th of December, he told the reporters that he had joined Hezb Island (Hikmartyar) after the Soviet invasion in 1979.
Wafa, an original resident of Paktia province, was very close to the late President Daud. He studied electronic engineering in the Soviet Union and served in the Afghan air force as an officer. He had plaiyed an active role in the coup against King Zahir Shah, and became the minister of Frontiers in Duad's cabinet He has also served as the Afghan ambassador to Bulgaria,
regions.
The regime has announced putting one hundred Jawzjani militiamen in jail for their indulgence and misbehavior towards the people in the capital. The Jawzjani are said to be presently restricted to their barracks. A variety of special privileges given to Jawzjani militiamen have annoyed other units of the regime's security faces.
The Kandahari militias head by Esmat Muslim have also been roaming freely in the capital. They have been accused of kidnapping girls and looting people’s property in day light. Once they engaged in fighting with the security forces of the regime causing embarrassment for Najibullah during a meeting of local elders.
Militia forces have joined the regime for different reasons . A common thing among all of them is corruption and indulgence in immoral acts.
Libya and India.
Mr. Wafa said Soviet advisors are still in control of the three ministries of Defense, Interior and State Security (WAD). He stated that the Soviet military advisors were involved in combat activities and without their help the Afghan army cannot fire SCUD missiles. He disclosed that the Russians have given to the regime a new type of rocket called Tula-Two, which is mac powerful than the SCUDS.
Wafa was of the opinioi that holding elections before the defeat of the regime will be difficult
Two other defections to the Mujahideen have included Mirza Aqa Gul and Aminullah who were regime diplomats posted in Pakistan. Last June, Abdul Wakil another regime diplomat working in the Afghan embassy in Islamabad did join the Mujahideen.
give back medals
A group of Soviet soldiers who had participated in the Afghan war have asked the Soviet parliament to denounce the war as a crime against the Soviet and Afghan people.
Approximately 100 soldiers on the 15th of December, gathered for a meeting in a park in the Republic of Lithuania on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. A further 2000 people including families of those killed and disabled soldiers from the Afghan war participated in the meeting.
At the end of the meeting, about 100 veterans of the Afghan war marched to the door of the Republic’s parliament and returned their medals and certificates they had received during their service in Afghanistan. A total of 210 medals and certificates were returned and a document was signed by the representatives of the soldiers and government officials. The speaker in the meeting asked the Soviet parliament in Moscow to denounce the invasion of Afghanistan as a dime against the people of the two countries. Earlier the Soviet government announced an amnesty fa all.those who had committed crimes during the 10 year war in Afghanistan.
Soviet soldiers entered Afghanistan (Hi the 27th of December, 1979, to defend the regime against what they called "outside enemies of Afghanistan". The official explanation of the invasion did not convince the soldiers who saw themselves fighting against ordinary Afghan people.
Soviet parliament in its recent session passed a resolution denouncing the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The resolution calls the invasion a morally and politically wrong action.
Soviet troops were sent to Afghanistan by Brezhnev to replace one communist leader with another and suppress the popular movement against the communists' rule.
Kabul regime ex-minister defects to the Mujahideeii