AFGHANews Vol 7, No 24, December 15, 1991, page ©
Dr. Lafraie
A six week long trip to the liberated areas of Afghanistan in the northeast this fall (mid September to end of October) was both informative and rewarding. Seeing large territories, stretching from the border with Pakistan to Tajikistan, and living in peace under the Mujahideen administration is impressive indeed.
I will give a brief account of the newly liberated areas I visited along the border with Tajikistan.
Khwaja Ghar and Dashti-i-Qala
Khwaja Ghar is located about fifty kilometers north of Taliqan. After the liberation of Taliqan by the Mujahideen in the summer of 1988, the Kabul regime moved the administrative center of Takhar Province to Khwaja Ghar.
I accompanied Commander Masood in a trip to Khwaja Ghar, Dashti-i-Qala, and Kokcha Bridge. His description of the Khwaja Ghar battles and our visit of Kokcha irrigation project and "Samad Padshah's" house and farm near Dasht-i-Qala were interesting. I did not find a chance, however, to visit the towns of Khwaja Ghar and Dasht-i-Qala,
The two battles of Khwaja Ghar irithe late spring and early summer of 1991 were masterpieces of the Supervisory Council's regular and well-planned wars. In the first battle, not only was the arena of the operation extremely vast, the enemy also held all the dominant and strategic points. After the liberation of the town for the first time, the Kabul regime sent the blood-thirsty militia troops of Rashid Dustam and the "Gilamjam” who were intoxicated by their victories in Paghman and Logar. With deep understanding of the enemy's psychology and tactics, however. Commander Masood acted in such a way that the Mujahideen received the minimum casualties whereas the enemy suffered heavy losses. In a few days, the Dustam troops were forced to run away and the city fell back to the Mujahideen. Luckily, an excellent video movie about the fighting has been produced by the Cultural Committee of the Supervisory Council. Soon it will be released; Insha-Allah.
Another feat of the Mujahideen in the Khwaja Ghar battles was the cooperation of Mujahideen of various organizations and their orderly war under a united command. Although the Supervisory Council (SC) played the leading role, troops from Ittihad Islami, Harakat Lnqilab Islami and Hizb Islami of Mawlawi Khalis also took part in the fighting. It was a new and successful experience for the Mujahideen. Conquering
the city in an orderly manner without any damages to the public or private property, and the Mujahideen's humane and kind treatment of the civilians and captured militiamen are other noteworthy features of the Khwaja Ghar battles.
The Kokcha bridge is located a few kilometers away from Khwaja Ghar. One side of the bridge is the site of the offices and equipment of the Kokcha irrigation project, and the other side is the site of the residential quarters for the engineers and personnel of the project After the conquest of the area by the Mujahideen, the Kabul regime tried several times to destroy the bridge and dis-rupt/communication between the headquarters of the SC and the region beyond the Kokcha. Although a bomb hit the rim of the bridge and a SCUD missile exploded about 40 feet away in the river, fortunately the bridge was not damaged.
The machinery and equipment captured by the Mujahideen in the Kokcha project are considerable, both qualitatively and quantitatively. The machinery and equipment of the project were not divided as war booty among the parties. They are used, rather, for construction of public welfare projects under the supervision of the SC in any place they are needed. The Council makes efforts to repair the equipment and vehicles which have been damaged. Technicians of the Council were extremely busy in repair work when we visited the place.
Residential quarters of the Kokcha project are all built of good quality bricks and cement. It is very obvious that the Russian advisors and the engineers who worked there were more concerned with their own comfort than serving the people and the country.
The way the Kokcha project was supposed to operate also demonstrates insincerity of its designers in serving the people of Afghanistan. Instead of building a dam which could be used not only for irrigation but could also produce electricity for the poor and deprived people of the region, the project designers- wanted to irrigate thousands of acres of land by operating water pumps. Chances are that the agricultural products of the project would hardly suffice the cost of the fuel needed for running the water pumps. Of course, perpetual dependence upon Russia for providing the fuel was certainly another aim of the project
Half the way between Kokcha bridge and Dasht-i-Qala (which are about 12 kilometers away from each other), there is a village called Sarugh. It was the "capital" of "Samad Padshah" (king Samad) whose house, farm, and garderi'were located there. Samad is a communist militia commander who has achieved the Tank of general under the Najib regime. Before disclosure of his relations with the Russians, he was supported by some high-ranking officials in JIA's leadership. As I learned during my trip, membership of Samad in Jami'at at that
time made several good JIA commanders defect to Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar. It is interesting that after Samad's defeat by the SC, Engineer Bashir, general commander of Hezb Islami in Takhar, gave him asylum and provided for his escape. This caused the few commanders who still supported him to desert him. Today Eng. Bashir lives as a refugee in Badakhshan, and Hezb Islami Hikmatyar does not have any presence in T akhar whatsoever.
Visiting "Samad Padshah's" house and comparing it with other houses in the village in size and manner of construction shows that Samad really thought of himself as a king. He was hoping to maintain and expand his realm with the help of die regime. But today the trees of his garden, which was irrigated by the water pumps of the Kokcha project, are dying; crops of his fields, which reached several thousand kilograms, have been harvested by the Mujahideen of the SC; and he himself is busy plotting for the restoration of his kingdom in Kunduz.
I met three Mujahideen commanders during my trip to Khwaja Ghar and Dasht-i-Qala. Zabet Abdul Salam is one of Jami'at's commando's in Khwaja Ghar. M amour Hasan is the Jami'at's general commander in Dasht-i-Qala. He was a member of Hezb Islami Hikmatyar until a few months ago and lived outside Dasht-i-Qala, which was under the control of the regime. Changiz Khan, Jami'at's commander in Walwaleej, came to Kokcha bridge to visit Commander Masood. He looks like a very simple and humble young man. I was surprised to learn that he was one of the prominent commanders of Samad and the backbone of his militia force. His defection to the SC certainly contributed to Samad's final defeat.
Aay Khanum
Aay Khanum is a historical and strategic place located at the point where the Kokcha river joins the Amu river at die border with Tajikistan. The hill-top in Aay Khanum served as headquarters of General Shah Mahmoud (alias Kor-i-Mali). a militia commander, after his defeat in vicinity of Taliqan in Spring 1989. When Khwaja Ghar was conquered by the Mujahideen, Shah Mahmoud foresaw the imminent demise of the regime in the region. He contacted SC and showed interest to defect Today General Shah Mahmoud and his armed men live peacefully in Taliqan under the command of the SC and serve as a symbol of SC's general amnesty to the regime troops and militias.
The historical site where excavation has taken place is located on the plain below the hill. It is believed to be 2300 years old. Floors covered with small pieces of stone and large or small pieces of columns still exist at the site. It is alleged that more valuable objects were taken away by the Russians.