AFGHANews Vol7, No 19, October 1,1991, page (B
Front the diary of Jehad	Part(l)
A short visit to Badakhshan
I wanted to visit die newly liberated areas of Takhar and Badakhshan to get first-hand information about situation there. But, due to shortage of time, it was not possible to visit both places in one trip . I decided to visit Badakhshan because it needed less time. The visit to Badakhshan would have given me a chance to compare the current situation there with the situation before the Soviet invasion because I had been in the same area weeks before die 1979 Soviet invasion of Afghanistan
My trip started from Peshawar on September 28. I was accompanied by Engineer Kamaluddin arid Engineer Farid of CBR, a private reconstruction organization, who wanted to study the possibility of launching reconstruction projects in the area.
We left Chitral on the second day of trip in a car belonging to CBR and crossed the border in the afternoon of that day. We decided to spent the night in the field office of CBR inside Afghanistan. The office was located at the bank of a natural lake. Tens of tents were pitched there to accommodate 200 workers and engineers who are building a road from Pakistan to Badakhshan. The construction of the road started in -1987 but due to lack of funds, proper equipment and long and harsh winter, the construction work was slow.
The road which starts from Garm Chishma, a town inside Pakistan, has been built up to Toop Khana, the Afghan border post about IS kilometers inside Afghanistan. More work is needed to be done before vehicles can take supplies from Pakistan to Badakhshan, but what has been done so far is an achievement by itself. A team of mine sweepers, affiliated to the UN, were clearing the area from the landmines planted by the Soviets during their occupation of the area. Soviets had built a road between Toop Khana and Zebak during the Soviet occupation. The road needs to be repaired and some bridges are must be built to make it useable by vehicles. The Soviets had not build any bride on this road. Their trucks and tanks either crossed the river or they laid temporary bridges when needed. Heavy truck will be able to cross the river in the fall when the level of water is low. In order to have a permanent road, three bridges should be build on the river.
CBR is trying to get funds from some organizations to repair this road. By building this road the people of Badakhshan, especially the areas liberated recently, will benefit a lot Food and medicine could reach this area from Pakistan. It will also have a positive effect on the economy of die people along the road and can provide jobs for the some local people. UN and other relief organizations can transport their supplies through this road to most parts of the northeast Afghanistan.
Spending the night by the lake was a
Mohammad Es'haq
unique experience. The majority of the workers offered their prayers in congregation. The Imam (leader of prayers) was a young man who translated a short passage of Holy Quran to the workers at the mosque. A group of workers caught few trouts from the lake which were set aside for die dinner of the guests. Private cars, belonging both to Pakistani and Afghans, brought passengers and across the historic Dora Pass all the night.
The short stay by the lake brought to my mind my first trip to Badakhshan 11 years ago. At that time, we had a tea by die lake and spent the night in Toop Khana, in a room which housed the border guards of the Afghan government before it was captured by the Mujahideen. Life was very difficult those days. There was no warm clothes, no comfortable shoes, no dried food and, most important, no sleeping bags. Eleven years of Jehad has brought a big change in Afghanistan. This change is not limited in the way of living of Afghans but also to their way of thinking. Afghans of today have came out of their traditional isolation and are ready to accept the positive aspects of the outside people. Their major problem, at the moment, is creation of a political system that is acceptable to the majority of Afghans. Once the system is created, one can expect rapid developments in Afghanistan.
After offering the morning prayers, we began our journey . CBR's truck took us to Toop Khana where the Mujahideen of Sayyed Najmuddin have established a check post We introduced ourselves and showed them the pass letter that we had obtained from Jami'at office in Chitral. Passengers are required to introduce a letter of introduction from one of the Mujahideen parties. Their commander showed us the way. Soviet had once a garrison in Toop Khana to block the supply route of the Mujahideen. The abandoned buildings of the Red Army and the barbed wire around tiie garrison reminds the travellers of die Soviet occupation.
The journey to Sanglech, the first village in the valley , took two and half hours of walk. We went to the tea house in the village and had our breakfast. The people in the village were busy harvesting then-farms. They grow wheat, beans and barley. There are no fruit trees in Sanglech because of cold climate. The owner of the tea house, a man of about 35, told us the horror story that happened a group of Mujahideen near the village. In 198S, a group of 700 armed Mujahideen started their journey from a border village in Pakistan. Their destination was Jorm District of Badakhshan. They planned to cross* the village of Sanglech with tiie help of some local sympathizers of tile Mujahideen. At that time, the Soviets
controlled the area. They had barely crossed the border when were attacked by the enemy jets. Soviet helicopters landed commandoes in strategic points. The Mujahideen were either betrayed by an informer or were watched by high-flying re connasence planes. About 80 Mujahideen were killed and about 100 managed to escape. The rest were captured. The owner of the tea house was among the captured ones. The local people concealed him from the Russians because his father had business with die villagers. He pretended to be one of tiie villagers and continued to live in the village. The captured Mujahideen were taken to Eshkashim and sent to serve in die puppet army.
I asked him about the Soviets behavior towards the people of Sanglech. He said that the Soviet soldiers committed many crimes in the first two years of their occupation of the area. They shot shepherds and farmers when saw them. When a Tajik officer was appointed the commander of the Soviet forces at Toop Khana, tiie situation eased. He treated the people affectionately . The officer was drowned in the river when he was fishing. Soviet suspected die villagers for killing of the missing officers and imprisoned many elders of die village to show those responsible for die alleged murder. When the body of the officer was recovered from river, die elders were released. When the Afghan army units were stationed at Toop Khana, the situation improved further.
Toop Khana ’came under die Mujahideen's control in 1978. In 1980. the Red Army established a garrison there. In 1989, after the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, it was liberated again. After the withdrawal of the regime troops from Toop Khaha, Sanglech was also liberated.
The people of die Sanglech have started to benefit from opening of this road. They bring their needed items from Pakistan and some of them are earning money by transporting goods and people. They are the followers of Ismailia sect. There is no mosque in the village. They speak a local language but all of them can speak Persian too.
We reached Eskalol, a village larger and more populated than Sanglech, after five hours of walk. Conditions in this village was similar to those of the first one. This village was under control of die communists until three month ago.. A telephone line had connected die village to die sub-District headquarters at Zebak.
We spent die night in a tea house at the bank of die river. The owner of the tea house was a former regime army officer who had served one and half year prison term in Panjshir. He was captured by die Mujahideen in Kuran in 1987. Now he was making more money at die doorstep of his house than serving the puppet army and