Vol 6, No 20&21
November 1,1990
free center
KAfjjTHtTmi
Tereen Koot, the provincial capital of Uruzgan province, fell to the Mujahideen on October 3.
The attack on the city was launched by the local Mujahideen who were supported by Mujahideen from neighboring Kandahar Province.
The attack was launched in two phases. In the first phase, which started on September 27, the radio communication center and five security posts were captured and 45 soldiers were killed. In a counterattack launched by regime forces, lOOencmy soldiers lost their lives.
The second phase of the attack was launched on October 3. The city was liberated and the enemy resistance was crashed within 23 hours. Fighters belonging to KHAD resisted the Mujahideen until they were defeated.
Mullah NaqibuUah from Kandahar played a key role in organizing the attack. All the Mujahideen groups in the area took part in the attack, in addition to about 500 Mujahideen from Kandahar.
The Mujahideen used captured tanks to attack the regime positions. More than 200 enemy soldiers died in the operation. The Mujahideen lost six men and twenty were injured.
The Kabul regime admitted its setback, blaming the governor for the.loss of Tereen Koot. The Kabul regime has said that the garrison in Tereen Koot held 500 men.
Regime officers also told foreign reporters that the governor belonged to the Khalq faction. The Mujahideen contradict thisreport, saying that the governor of Uruzgan was captured in the fighting. They say that the governor had negotiated his surrender with the Mujahideen but broke his promise and resisted when the attack was launched.
Tereen Koot is the first provincial capital which has fallen to the Mujahideen since the Soviet troop withdrawal.
Uruzgan is situated about 125 kilometers north of the city of Kandahar.
Commanders adopt fresh war strategy
Commander Ahmad Shah Masood's visit to Pakistan resulted in a new military and political strategy and reduction of tension between Hezb and Jami'at.
In order to attend the meeting of commanders, Masood reached Shah Salim, a village on Pakistan-Afghanistan border near Chitral, on October 6. He was accompanied in this trip by Commander Abdul Hay Haqjo from Baghlan, Commander Sayyed Ikramuddin from Takhar and Commander Azimi from Parwan.
Soon after arrival he began discussions with Jami'at leader Prof. Rabbani and other party officials about political, military and administrative matters.
The commanders’ meeting, which began on October 6, continued for four consecutive days. Major field commanders like Jalaluddin Haqani, Qari Baba, Abdul Haq, Amin Wardak, Abdul Wahid, the representative of Ismail Khan and many others participated. The commanders belonged to different political parties and ■ came from many parts of Afghanistan representing both Shia and Sunni Mujahideen.
From the first meeting of the commanders it was clear that they had similar views about the major military and internal political issues. Discussions were frank and friendly.
The commanders agreed on a new strategy which include launching coordinated attacks against the enemy all over Afghanistan and establishing administrative units for improvement of law and order in the liberated areas.
Some foreign journalists had come to the border to report the event, which they described as "historical".
When Masood was in the border area, he was invited by Pakistani authorities to visit Islamabad and discuss the situation in Afghanistan with Pakistani leaders. At the same time, the participating commanders persuaded him to go to Islamabad to seek support of the political leaders for the new strat-
egy. Masood accepted the offer and went to Islamabad.
Masood had lived in Pakistan from 1975 to 1978. But after launching Jehad against Taraki and then the Soviets, he had never left Afghanistan.
In Islamabad, he talked with Pakistan Chief of the Army. Staff General Mirza Aslam Baig, Foreign Minister Sahibzadah Yaqoub Khan and other officers, and discussed with them the new strategy of the Mujahideen. Masood also met with the US, Iranian, Turkish, Egyptian and Saudi Arabian ambassadors and informed them of the current situation in Afghanistan.
During his stay, he talked to many journalists and received a delegation from the International Islamic University of Islamabad.
One of the purposes of Masood's visit was talking to die leaders of Jehad about the new strategy and getting their support After several joint and separate meetings with the leaders, they expressed support for the new strategy, and most of them supported the Council of Commanders. •
The major event of the trip was the discussion between Masood and Hikmatyar. Masood had sent a message to Hikmatyar from border that he was willing to meet him to solve differences between the Supervisory Council and Hezb. In the first meeting, the two sides agreed to hold elections in 13 ' provinces that Supervisory Council is active to determine which party has the majority. The majority party in each district will form the local administration, and the majority party in each province will lead military operations, Prof. Rabbani and Hikmatyar later signed the accord in Peshawar.
Masood met with the UN Secretary General's representative on Afghanistan and discussed with him the political situation in . the country and UN aid to the people inside. He seemed happy about the results of his
Turn to page (5 )