AFGHANews Vol 6, No 23, December 1, 1990, page ©
*Wisdom of*
the sages
More haste, less speed
I had ridden hard all day, boasting of my youthful energy; at evening, I lay down exhausted at the foot of a mountain. A feeble old man was following the convoy on foot, and as he passed me, called out: " Why are you sleeping? Get up! This is no place to sleep."
"How can I go?" I replied. " I'm so tired, I'm legless! " He answered: "Haven't you heard the advice, better to go slowly and take short rests than to run and give up the race."
O! You who are still eager to reach your goal, do not rush! ollow my advice and learn to be patient. The Arab horse can galop for two stages and is then worn out, while the camel travels slowly day and night.
Forgiveness renews friendship
I had a friend once. For years we had travelled together and shared our bread and salt. The mutual rights and obligations of nendship were firmly eastablished between us. One day, for the sake of a petty material advantage, he saw fit to offend me; our friendship broke up. Nevertheless, some affection remained on both sides.
One day, I heard that he quoted some of my poetry to a group of friends, who applauded it and praised my character. He expressed lis regret at the death of our friendship, and admitted his own fault. I understood that he was eager to renew our friendship. So I sent him the following verses and we made up: " Had we not promised to be faithful friends? You wronged me and betrayed our friendship. In all the world, it was to you that I made a commitment once and for all - I didn't realize you would change so soon. But if you still want to make peace, come back! And you will be dearer to me than ever you were before."
Kabul bid for SAARC entry fails
The Kabul regime's bid to gain membership in SAARC ( South Asian Association of Regional Cooperation) was rejected by that organization in its fifth summit in Male.
Pakistan, India, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, Nepal and Bangladesh are members of SAARC. India supports Kabul's membership but Pakistan opposes it because it does not consider the Kabul regime a representative government. Former Indian Prime Minister V.P Singh had assured Dr. Najib of his government's support when the latter visited India.
The Kabul regime wants to end its political isolation by rejoining the Organization of Islamic Conference (OIC) and gaining membership in SAARC.
The Afghan seat in the OIC, which had remained vacant since the 1979 Soviet invasion, was given to the Mujahideen about two years ago.
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
Jj ijij J 4j
In the ditch where water has flowed, it will flow again.
Meaning: Previous prosperity will follow disaster.
One who runs will also fall.
Meaning: Calamity can come as well as prosperity.
yji Jj y y
When one jumps over one stream the next becomes easier.
Meaning: Practice makes man PerfeCt
If God wishes to preserve a man, He will keep him safe even in the mouth of a lion.
Meaning: He that is bom to be hanged shall never be drowned.

111
Ms;
Mi
WMP
Has thou observed himwho beliethreiigion? That is he who repelleth the orphan; I;'
' not the jf	nl|^y|l|l|
Ah, woe unto worshippers Who are heedless of their prayer;
Who would be seen (at worship)
Yet refuse small kndnesses)
[Glorious Quran, Surah CVIM to 7)