AFGHANews Vol 5, No 8, April 15,1989, page
Herat province
Five militiamen were killed and three captured when they were ambushed by the Mujahideen on the Herat-Islam Qala road on March 20. The Mujahideen also seized one truck and eight guns in the operation.
Eleven soldiers were killed and one officer was captured when Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked an enemy post on the road between the city of Herat and the airport on April 9.
The Mujahideen seized 11 Kalashnikov rifles , one PK machine gun and one pistol.
In another operation, nine armored cars and trucks of the communist regime were destroyed and an unknown number of enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded on Herat-Islam Qala road on April 8. The Mujahideen seized seven guns.
Two Mujahideen were injured.
Kabul province
Mujahideen from Jami'at clashed with enemy forces who wanted to open Kabul-Charikar road in Mirbacha Koot district, about 30 kilometers north of the city of Kabul, on March 28.
The Mujahideen: captured more than 20 enemy soldiers and killed or wounded more than 80 men.
The Mujahideen destroyed some trucks and armored cars and seized 27 guns.
Two Mujahideen were wounded and one killed in the fighting.
An enemy supply helicopter was shot down by the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Rostam Khail area of Sorobi district on April 5. ^
Four crew members of the helicopter were killed. The helicopter was carrying ammunition to the besieged city
of Jalalabad.
Baghlan province
More than 100 soldiers and officers of the communist regime defected to the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Hasantal close to the city of Baghlan on March 8. The defecting soldiers brought with them 10 heavy machine guns, five rocket launchers, 85 Kalashnikov rifles and Some ammunition.
The Mujahideen from Jami'at ambushed an enemy convoy in Kohna-Masjed, five kilometers west of Puli Khumri city on April 2.
Two armored cars were destroyed and 12 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded.
Jawzjan province
Four enemy soldiers were killed and six injured when the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the enemy post of Bala-Hisar near the city of Aqcha on March 24. The enemy retaliated by firing heavy weapons, as a result of which seven houses in the neighboring villages were destroyed. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
In a different operation, the Mujahideen killed eight enemy soldiers and captured 12, including a political commissar, when they attacked the enemy posts of Laghmany about two kilometers from Aqcha city on March 22. The Mujahideen captured 36 guns, one mortar, two rocket launchers, one radio set, three tractors and some ammunition.
One Mujahid was injured in the operation.
Helmand province
The Mujahideen from Jami’at attacked enemy posts around the city of Lashkar Gah, the provincial capital, on
March 15. Several posts were destroyed and an unknown number of enemy soldiers were killed or wounded.The Mujahideen seized 15 guns.
One Mujahid was killed and two Mujahideen were injured.
Twelve communists were killed and six wounded when the Mujahideen attacked their position near the jail of Girishk on April 6.
One, Mujahid was killed in the operation.
Urozgan province
The Mujahideen liberated Deh Raud district after a four-month siege on March 27.
About 1300 Militiamen who defended the district surrendered to the Mujahideen. They handed over the following items to the Mujahideen:
More than 1000 light weapons, 20 heavy machine guns, three radio sets, six armored cars, ten trucks, five mortars and five ZPU anti-aircraft guns.
The communist forces now control only the provincial capital of the province.
In the attack against Deh Raud the Mujahideen from different parties participated but the Mujahideen from Jami'at and Hezb Islami (Khalis group) played a vital role.
Logar province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured 30 enemy soldiers with their weapons when they attacked the enemy post in Padkhab village about two kilometers from Pul-i-Alam, the provincial capital of Logar on April 5.
One tank in woiking condition was also captured. The attack was launched under the command of Dr. Fazlullah.
Jalalabad
Fighting for control of Jalalabad city, which started five weeks ago. Still continues.
The city's road link to Kabul is cut. Repeated efforts by the regime to bring supplies to the town have beeri foiled by the Mujahideen.
From six to ten helicopters bring supplies to the city each day. Keeping in mind the number of fighters and the intensity of fighting, the regime forces have enormous difficulties to resupply themselves.
A Kabul regime spokesman reported sending fresh troops to Jalalabad.
Turn to page (3 )