AFGHAN NEWS
No. 8
30-4-1985
P- 27-
                          SAMANGAN PROVINCE
 Mujahideen of Jamiat in Khuim District set the enemy pipeline' on fire (two pipe-lines are extended from the Soviet border to Bagram Airbase. The pipe-lines run by the side of Salang highway and are above-the;ground,
 12- 3-85
 Mujahideen set on fire the enemy's pipe-line in Tangi of Tachqur-ghan. The pipeline continued burning for 24 hours.
 13- 3:85
 Mujahideen cut the enemy pipe-line in the. Sayyad area of Khuim' District which caused considerable waste for the efaemy. Mujahideen also attacked the enem's positions in Jshan Nema garden with RRs, RPGs and mortars. Eight enemy soldiers were killed and three others injured.
 12:2:85
 Mujahideen of Jamiat, Hezb, Harakat Islami and Jabhai Nejat inaa joint action, attacked the enemy positions in the city of Khuim.
 They made use. of heavy weapons in this operation. The attack included 14 posts and Jehan Nema garden (a Soviet post). Nineteen Soviet DRA soldiers were killed and some others injured.
 12:2:85
 Mujahideen of Jamiat attacked the District headquarters of Khuim with heavy weapons. Part of the building was damaged and two communists were killed.
15_2|_85
                    KUNAR PROVINCE
 Mujahideen of Daraseen of Kunar attacked enemy positions around Barikot as a result of which 6 DRA soldiers were killed. Later on the same day, 6 Jets and 9 Helicopters attacked Mujahideen positions,
 3 Mujahids were killed and some others injured. The war is still continuing *   —
                           BAMYAN PROVINCE
 A report from Mujahideen reaching Peshawar, says that in the middle of Febrvary, Mujahideen from different groups joined together and raided the DRA Tabaq Sari post of Bamyan. They besieged the post for three days and finally captured it.
 Mujahideen captured 4-7 AK-47 rifles, two mortars and two Dschk guns. Thirteen militias and soldiers were killed , 17 others were captured, the rest were able to escape. Three Mujahids were injured during the operation.
 After three days the enemy retaliated with air strikes against liberated areas especially Ghandak and Shaibar, as a result 35 men, women and children were killed and 15 others were injured. 50 houses were destroyed.                                        1