AFGHANews Vol7, No 12, June 15,1991, page ©
Tel: (0521)	, FAX: (0521)	42410
Editorial
No peace with regime in power
The UN peace plan must be studied by a committee representing all Mujahideen parties. This committee should shape the common position of the Mujahideen regarding the plan. Reaction by individual parties causes further differences among the Mujahideen and nuns efforts for a peaceful solution of the Afghan problem.	I
A study of Mujahideen reactions indicates that all the Mujahideen find some positive point in the UN plan. Points like restoration of independence, the Islamic character of Afghanistan and exercise of the right of self-determination by the people of Afghanistan are the points which cannot be disputed. The Mujahideen have been fighting for the achievement of these aims.
Regarding two i items of the plan - ceasefire and intra -Afghan dialogue -the Mujahideen have expressed some reservation because these can be interpreted in many ways. Observing a ceasefire during a transitional period which the Mujahideen agree upon is a logical step. But there must be no ceasefire while the regime remains in power.
The most controversial point in the plan is that of intra-Afghan dialogue. Although it is a very general concept, the Mujahideen want to make it known that there is no chance of talks between the Kabul regime and the Mujahideen.
This means there needs to be further clarification by the UN. Equally important is adoption of a common stand by Mujahideen on the issue.
The countries friendly to the Mujahideen also have supported the UN plan. There is a need for coordination of their Views with those of the Mujahideen.
Some people might wonder why the Mujahideen oppose participation of the Kabul regime in elections, which would be an easy way to vote the regime out of power.
The Mujahideen are sure the Kabul regime would be defeated in a fair election. They do not want to allow Kabul to take part, however, because that would give the regime false legitimacy, the consequences of which would be disastrous for Afghanistan. A political deal with the Kabul regime will make it the legal heir of past legitimate governments.
The Kabul regime came to power in a military coup which faced an immediate people's uprising . The Red Army installed the regime's current leaders: their rule is a direct result of the Soviet invasion. We should avoid any step which might lend the appearance of legitimacy to these discredited puppet rulers.
Afghans must worry about Soviet intention in Afghanistan for two reasons:
First, there is no real change in Soviet policy towards Afghanistan. They support the Kabul regime by all means and try to prevent Afghans from choosing the type of government they want.
Second, Afghanistan shares a long border with the Soviet Union. Moscow links developments in Afghanistan with its internal security.
Because of these two points, Soviets will continue to meddle in Afghanistan using every means at their disposal. Legitimizing the Kabul regime through a political deal would give legal status to all the treaties signed between the USSR and their puppets in Kabul. Although there is no information about the number and nature of these agreements, one can expect that these accords would provide a pretext for the Soviets to influence the course of events in Afghanistan to their own benefit.
The Mujahideen are not ready to deal with Kabul in order to bury the tragic chapter of communist rule and Soviet intervention in Afghanistan. Relations between a free Afghanistan and the Soviet Union must not be based on the tragic years of occupation and invasion.
In order to achieve this, the Mujahideen insist on the policy of "no deal with the Kabul regime." If Moscow can smuggle Honecker out of Germany and give him political asylum, it might attempt the same for Najib, perhaps the worst of all living dictators.
News from the Battliefields
From page (2)
was a Mujahid.
The martyrs were buried in a special ceremony held in Taliqan which is described to be unprecedented in the history of Jehad in Afghanistan. Thousand of people attended the burial ceremony to pay respect for the martyred commanders . Read obituaries on page (7).
Farah Province
Several jets fighters and helicopters of the Kabul regime were destroyed on May 26 when the Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked Shindand air base with ground-to-ground rockets.
Three helicopters were destroyed by rocket crashing into the base and 2 jet fighters were destroyed by fire in a fuel dump caused by incoming Mujahideen rockets. Eyewitness reported that the fuel dump of the air base burned for four hours. The Mujahideen also attacked the regime headquarters in'the base which resulted in destruction of a truck and killing or wounding of a number of enemy servicemen.
The district headquarters of Shindand was also attacked which resulted in killing of 25 enemy soldiers and wounding of 16.
The enemy retaliated by aerial bombing of the liberated areas causing some casualties among civilians. The enemy made use of incindiary and cluster bombs against the Mujahideen;
Communist leader killed by comrade
■Hashim Paykar, the former governor of Faryab Province and one of the leaders of Groh-i-Kar , a communist faction, has been killed in Maimana during the course of an internal dispute.
According to a Mujahideen source, the fall of Qaysar District caused a row among the faction's members, which led one of Paykar's comrades to kill him.
The source said Payakar's death was good news for the Mujahideen because he was extremely active, trying to infiltrate Mujahideen ranks and create misunderstandings among them.
Paykar's replacement by i Parchami governor sparked violent clashes between the supporters of Groh-i-Kar and the Parchamis, leaving many dead on both sides.