  AFGHAN. MEWS__VOL. I]__MIL-24_1V12/1986 PAGE 5
                   HERAT PROVINCE          . .
 15/U/1986 Mujahideen Slacked enemy posts around the city of Herat More than 100 enemy soldiers were wounded or killed and 10 others captured Mujahideen seized 35 guns Two Mujahideen were martyred and 8 others wounded The posts which were attacked were part of the enemy security belt, built during the last few months of fighting
                                    PARTITA PROVINCE
 20/11/1986. Mujahideen from jami’at were attacked by the enemy During the clash 5 armoured cars of the enemy were destroyed and a targe number of its troops killed or wounded. 5 Mujahideen were martyrd and 15 others wounded.
 9/11//1986, Mujahideen from Jami'at, Hezb and Harakat attacked the garrison in Vaza Khaw with heavy weapons The enemy suffered heavy casualties butthe exact number is not know yet Mujahideen suffered no casualties
        J j :               .  ■■             , g .
       Remember how the unbelievers ploted against you, to keep you in bonds,
       or stay you,
       or expel you from your home.
       They plot and plan                     .
       But Allah also plans
        And the best of Planners is Allah
Al-Anfal(8) 30
                                     MEETING SWEDISH OFFICIALS
 Prof BRabbani met Mr Bengt Sane-Soderberg Under Secratery of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Sweden on 24th of November in the Political Office of Jami at in Peshwar
 The two sides discussed the present situation in Afghanistan. Prof Rabbani stressed the teed for humanitarian and political support for the cause of the people of Afghanistan .o end the occupation of that country by the Soviets
 The Swedish Ambassador in Islamabad and the representative of the Swedish Committee or Afghanistan in Peshawar were also present at the meeting
 There is a relatively strong support among the people of Sweden for the Afghan Cause ind Sweden as a neutral country with anti war movement records can play a instructive role in putting political pressure on the Soviet aggressor to end their iccupation of Afghanistan
                                     LATE VICTORIES CELEBRATED
 ami at central offices in Peshwar celebrated the late victories of the Mujahideen in the forth of the country.
 n a large gathering which took place in Peshawar on November 30. speakers from lifferent parts of Afghanistan hailed the late victories of the Mujahideen in Nehrin nd Ferkhar, They supported the efforts launched by Commnader Masood to re-organize