AFGHANews Vol7, No 13, July 1,1991, page 0
From the diary of Jehad By: Abu Jehad
A trip to the North
My name is Abu Jehad and I was X)m 23 years ago in Iraq in a semi Kurdish family. I was a student in high school when first heard about Jehad of my Muslim brothers in Afghanistan through the Islamic Movement of Iraq. The movement spread the news of the Mujahideen struggle among its members secretly.
I decided to join the Mujahideen and in February of 1985 went to Herat.
I spent two and half years with Commander Ismail Khan during which I learned speaking and writing Persian.
I spend one and half years with other Mujahideen fronts in Herat.
I had heard a lot about Commander Masood and wanted to meet with him. In the summer of 1990,
I reached Takhar Province, where I spent eight months before returning to Peshawar.
I was in Takhar when Professor Mujaddidi visited the area. He was warmly received. Mujaddidi's trip had a positive effect on the Mujahideen and people in Afghanistan. The warm welcome accorded to him was a natural expression of respect for a Mujahideen leader who had been chosen as the President of AIG.
The first thing which impressed me about the North was the unity of the Mujahideen. In some other areas even if it is controlled by one party, there are little cooperation between the commanders of the same Mujahideen organization. In the North, all Jami’at Mujahideen obeyed Masood.
Before going to the North, I did not have ' any idea about the Mujahideen's administrative skills. I knew that they were good fighters but had no idea of their work in the fields of reconstruction, education, health and law and order. Watching road construe don, hospitals and schools, I became convinced that the Mujahideen were not just military people but fully prepared to run their country.
The Mujahideen run Taliqan city efficiently where Islamic Sharia is fully implemented. I was impressed by the security along the road and in the liberated towns and villages. Ordinary people praised Masood for his services to the people and they respected him.
When I was in Taliqan, Masood made a trip to Pakistan where he reached an agreement with Mujahideen commanders. People were very happy about the understanding reached among the field commanders. They were equally happy about an agree-
> Abu Jehad
ment signed by Jami'at and Hezb about solving their disputes peacefully.
After Masood's return preparation for attack against the Kabul regime started. Training of Mujahideen continued all winter. The level of training was quite impressive.
But unfortunately thing did not work the way it was predicted. Relations between Jami'at and Hezb did not improve because of the negative attitude of a senior Hezb commander, Bashir Shahadatyar.
Jami'at was preparing for holding ejections and a delegation from Hezb arrived from Peshawar for this purpose. They held several meetings with Masood. Soon it was revealed that Hezb was distributing money among commanders in a bid to win their votes.
Commander Bashir started to distribute money among some Jami'at commanders in Taliqan and other parts of Takhar to incite them against Masood and Supervisory Council. Jami'at commanders who were approached had informed Masood about Bashir's design.
An assassination attempt was planned by Bashir involving four people from Taliqan. The culprits were captured. They admitted their involvement in the plot Masood wanted to ask the Hezb delegation to come to Taliqan to meet with the gang of four, hired by Bashir, but they preferred to return to Peshawar instead. These moves destroyed die chance of holding elections.
The last move by Bashir was an armed attack on Bangi for the purpose of capturing Taliqan.. After some initial gains the attack was checked. Hezb leader in Peshawar was contacted but
(I
To page (8)
From page (4)
He does not spare his own people. Of Soviet journalists, he writes, "We drew an attractive picture of revolutionary Afghanistan, not forgetting to project the image of the Soviet soldier as a peacemaker."
Nevertheless, Bacharov seems inclined to duck the unpleasant truth that right to the end of the Soviet military involvement, propaganda remained the essential task of Soviet journalists. "The only people who continued to Idiealize the soldiers and officers of the (Afghan) government forces were hopelessly backward journalists or those who were blinded by dual patriotism." The Soviet military knew very well, he claims, that they had to rely on themselves in Afghanistan, that their allies by and large were untrustworthy. Yet this was never reflected in the Soviet mass-media as a whole until the very end of the military involvement.
He describes the faking of espionage stories. "There was a constant demand for articles about spies and intervention from abroad." The problem was that no American spies could be found, until an American hippie by the name of Robert Lee was arrested. "Lee turned out to be a primitive bum Afghan mountain trails were the best place in the world to wander through an empty earthly life." The author explains, "There was nothing to do but release him."
Described, alongside a coldblooded murder of Afghan civilians by Soviet soldiers, are heroic deeds and deaths of Soviet soldiers in action. Though there is evident scorn for the old men in Moscow who ordered the invasion, the book shows considerable respect for the soldiers forced to fight in a war they could not understand There is a fascinating, admiring portrait here of General Boris Gromov, the last commander of Soviet forces Afghanistan, who was recently promoted by President Gorbachev to deputy interior minister.
"There were moments when Gromov was more than charming when he seemed to possess more compassion than any priest Nonetheless, as a regular military man," declares the writer, "General Gromov was the most tragic figure in Kabul, the.right man in the wrong place."
Anthony Hyman
COURTESY: ARIN