AFGHANews Vol7, No 8, April 15,1991, page O
corridor for the safe passage of the civilians.
A Soviet patrol saw a crowd of about 50 people moving slowly up the valley to escape encirclement Six SU-25 jets started to bomb them. They were about 50 meters away from where Masood and some Mujahideen had hidden themselves. The planes circled many times and dropped their bombs and fired roclcets with surprising precision. Nothing could be done. Masood told the people close him to pray for the safety of those under attack. Everybody prayed with tearful eyes. When the planes disappeared, scared children, women and old men were seen moving with dusty faces. All were safe, except for a woman who had come from Kabul to see her Mujahid son.
From page (4) tainable agreement He concludes that their fundamental defect was the evident failure "to address the issue of self-determination for the Afghan people". This was a fatal flaw in the accords which, Maley grimly writes, means "that for many Afghans, they offered only the peace of the grave".
Richard Falk, law professor at Harvard, argues convincingly that a parallel exists between the Geneva accords and the 1973 Paris accords which ended the Vietnam war. In Falk's view both were seriously flawed agreement, whose "implementation" turned out to be irresponsible and destructive on all sides. Richard Falk regards effective support for the Afghan resistance as constituting one of the few genuine triumphs of the Reagan administration. At the same time, he makes a strong plea for Western government not now to wash their hands of the Afghan people, still desperately needing help, and suffering so greatly by the continuing warfare.
Jami'at displays photos in Iran
An exhibition of photos, posters and video films showing different aspects of the Afghan Jehad was held in Bandar-i-Abbas, Iran, from February 2 to 10. The exhibition was organized by the central office of Jami'at Islami in Tehran to inform Iranians and Afghans living in Iran about the true situation in Afghanistan. The exhibition attracted a lot of attention from local people.
Dear Sin
I received the January 15,1991 issue of AFGHANews, with the editorial about the defective reporting by the BBCs Kabul correspondent I have sent the BBC a letter fo ask for its position. I will let you know what the BBC answer will be when I receive a reply.
As the member of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Dutch Labor Party, for the Haag party branch, your information is quite useful for me. I wrote an article on your liberation war in the party's monthly some years ago. HE. Ruitenberg Den Haag Holland
Dear brother .
Recently a Muslim brother gave me a copy of AFGHANews. I enjoyed reading it and learned about the problems which our Afghan brothers are facing. I enjoyed reading the 'Afghan Proverbs' and Wisdom of the sages'. My prayers are with the Muslim people of Afghanistan.
Mustafa Qazi New Jersey U.S.A
Dear Muslim brother Your sending of troops to Saudi Arabia has angered our Muslim brothers here. Nevertheless they have full sympathy for the Mujahideen. We do not approve sending of Mujahideen to Saudi Arabia but know that the Mujahideen have made their decision under difficult circumstances.
Mohamed Raffick Holican
Port-Louis
Mauritius
l
Dear Sir:
I received a copy of AFGHANews. I thank you for sending the paper, which is' informative and useful. I congratulate you on publishing such a tidy and easy-to-read paper Nasrullah Ghilzai Lahore Pakistan
Dear Sin
I do not think there will be any solution to the problem of Afghanistan in the near future. The military in the Soviet Union are more powerful now.
and they do not want to weaken Najib. And the U.S. government is totally concentrating on the Gulf.
By the way, I liked your feature about Najib’s name. Your analysis of what it shows was both funny and true: Islam is clearly the dominant ideal of the people of Afghanistan, but the Islamic parties are unable to take advantage of this, for various reasons. Barnett R. Rubin New York U.SA.
/ ‘
Dear Sir,
I am dismayed by the fact that Gorbachev tolerates changes in Eastern Europe and receives the Nobel Peace Prize with a broad smile on his face but, at the same time, continue to send large quantities of arms to his puppets in Kabul to be used for killing Afghan Muslims. I would like to see Afghans united and their country free. I would also like AFGHANews to be sent to me regularly.
Mehdi Hasan Khan Meraz Dhaka
DearSir,
Your paper AFGHANews keeps me wefi-informed about the situation in Afghanistan. Although the newspaper was good from the beginning of publication, it has become a very professional journal. You are to be congratulated.
While I continue to have.a pain in my heart because of the plight of the Afghan people, I am also troubled by what is happening in Kuwait and Iraq. I - and nearly all American people » are very ignorant of all of the different motives and issues involved with the Persian Gulf area, like colonialism Arabs, oil, human rights, religious freedom, God, Islam, Sunni Muslims, Shia Muslims, Palestinians... We try to understand and make sense and consider what is right and just. In the meantime manylraqis, Kuwaitis and other innocents will die and experience much suffering. I pray that there will be peace, and quickly.
Paul William Whitman, MA U.S.A