therefore food is available but at higher prices. Transportation of food frora outside, except for the border area is1 an economic and dan-gerous job. The solution is cash for food.
   Ilujahideen in most areas have developed a civil administration system to distribute funds for      food and collect reports and accounts.
The problem is to convince the relief organizations that these programmes can be conducted efficiently and with great effect. There is now enough experience in this field for the reasonable donor can put.his confidence in the successful organization of this aid. The only problem remaining is malting the decision to help the needy people inside the co~
untry-                  .      N_'b_W_S                   ■       V.
                            BALKH PROVINCE
24^11-35
In an ambush in 1 larmoul (10 ioa from Nazar city) Kujahideen from Jamiat-killed 12 Soviet soldiers and captured one. (this news was ’reported by Afghan News without the date).
25^11^35
During a successful operation, kujahideen from Jamiat destroyed ten Communist regime tanks in Balkh District. Eight AX-47s were captured and some enemy soldiers were killed.
29-11-35
Mujahideen attacked militia posts in Charsang village (near Jazar city). They captured 15 militias with 13 different types of guns.
£5-12-35
ilujahideen attacked the Communist regime's district headquarters of Da-wlat /..bad with a 107 mm rocket. The enemy suffered great losses. No details have been reported.
27-11-85
Ilujahideen from Jamiat in 3alkh district ambushed an enemy convoy and destroyed six tanks and /.PCs, Eleven AK-47s were captured in the operation.
8-12-35
In an engagement between Ilujahideen and Communist forces which continued for 14 hours, 5 tanks were destroyedinc I Jo casualty figures from either side have been given:   the report. Fighting took place near :lHee-
wadi Palas poosh” and two helicopters were also shot down.
17-12-35
Two officers and one soldier of the Communist regime killed six puppet regime officers and, joined Ilujahideen with oudifferent types of weapons. The incident took place in Ghoolger district. The enemy retaliated by launching an attack against Mujahideen. Fighting continued for ten days. Two APCs and four trucks were destroyed. Ho casualty figures from either side are given in the report.