AFGHANews Vol 5, No 22, November 15, 1989, page ©

^. P.O.Box 264; Pestovar-.Pakistan Tel: (0521^4:13^1;. ■ ||||
Editorial
> — . — - ■»
Soviet should stop helping the
product of an 'illegal invasion'
Soviet Foreign Minister Edvard Shevardnadze, has said that the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan was an illegal and immoral act.
This is the strongest condemnation of the invasion ever made by a high-ranking Soviet official.
The Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in December of 1979 when the communist regime was facing increasing opposition from the people of that country. The invasion provoked a nation-wide reaction and fighting continued for more than nine years.
The Soviets did not win the war militarily, and suffered economically and politically because of the aggression.
Marshal Sergei Akhromeyev, Gorbachev's military advisor, said in an interview with Time Magazine that the invasion of Afghanistan was a scar on the body of Soviet society.
The marshal said that Soviet youths were especially affected by the war in Afghanistan. "May I say that they will never be themselves again."
The Soviet leader's criticism of the war encouraged to the mayor of Kabul to call the invasion of 1979 unnecessary.
The Soviets argued in the past that they sent their troops only after repeated requests by Hafizullah Amin’s regime.
But when the Soviets invaded, they captured and executed him and some of his aides, and installed Babrak Karmal as the head of state. Babrak and Najib were living in exile. They entered Afghanistan with Soviet forces.
One can see a clear contradiction in the Soviet current policy towards Afghanistan. If the invasion was immoral and illegal, the product of that intervention is also illegal and immoral.
The Kabul regime is a direct product of the invasion. Why, then, do the Soviets still try to impose it on the people, by giving it $400 million dollars per month in military and economic aid?
A statement by the Afghan interim government, which welcomed the statement of the Soviet foriegn minister, asked the Soviet Union to match its words with deeds and stop interference in Afghanistan.
If the Soviets think that they can impose the illegal Kabul regime on the people of Afghanistan through supply of arms and economic aid, they have not learned their lessons from the Afghan adventure. They will only prolong the suffering of Afghans.
US Congressmen fed inaccurate information about Afghanistan
The statement of a high-ranking State Department official to the US Congress, regarding supplies of arms to the Mujahideen, has been misleading.
John Kelly, assistant secretary of state, told the House of Representatives on October 26 that his conversation with Afghan resistance leaders did not reveal any current complaint about their supply of arms.
He went so far as to say that the Mujahideen had what they needed for what they were undertaking.
In fact the Mujahideen have long been complaining about shortages of arms and ammunition, and no sign of improvement of the situation has been revealed.
We do not know which Mujahideen leaders Mr. Kelly met But major field commanders have been reporting serious shortages of arms and ammunition.
Turn to page (6)
Diary
of
Jehad
From page (6)
of their people in running businesses of all kinds. Emeralds are being dug -by the people and they pay 10% of their earnings to the Mujahideen. Working in the mines is very difficult but the people do it because this is the only way they can support themselves.
We were told that Mahmood Khan, the Amir of Panjshir and a native of Khench, was in town. I sent a letter to him to inform him of our arrival. In five minutes he was there to meet us. Despite being an important presence, he is always a humble man, kind to the people in need.
After we drank tea, a jeep was prepared to take us to Rukha. It was a great help. The appearance of the valley had greatly changed from last year. Last year when 1 visited the valley it was dead.
Except for the trees, which take a lot of time to grow, all varieties of crops were newly cultivated. The air was fresh and healthy. Thanks to the hard work of the people, they had turned a ruined valley into a greenhouse in a short span of time.
Few houses have been repaired. Shortages of manpower and building materials, lack of resources and the uncertain future are the main reason for the lack of activity in this area. Manpower for the construction work comes from outside the valley.
Road conditions in the valley had improved This was due to the work of the Reconstruction Committee.
Building foot bridges and culverts for vehicles was the most obvious construction work done after the liberation of the valley in 1988. The foundation of good work has been laid can be further developed when resources are available.
The technical skills of the local people helped the reconstruction of the bridges in the valley. A mechanic built an iron bridge from the frames of destroyed Russian trucks. The bridge was beautiful, and the cost of construction was 1/10 of what had been estimated by the engineers.
A workshop for the vehicles was also functioning in the valley to repair the vehicles and assemble new ones from destroyed trucks. There was no shortage of mechanics in the valley.