AFGHANews Vol 5, No 3, February 1, 1989, page 3
AHMAD Ali Shadad, a famous Afghan painter who defected to the Mujahideen one month ago says that the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan has had a negative effect on Afghan art.
Shadad, 30, comes from Paghman district of Kabul and belong to middle class family.
He became interestedin drawing and painting when he was a child.
After graduating from the art department ofSanaye School, he enrolled in the faculty of Fine Arts of Kabul University. After graduation in 1982 he started to teach in the same faculty.
Prof. Shadad is an expert in miniature illustrations . This is an art which originated and developed in Herat. The famous painter of Herat, Behzad (16th century) had an international reputation. From Herat this art went to Central Asia, Iran, India and the Middle East.
Miniature illustrations are used to decorate Holy Quran, books, pottery, tombstones, mosques etc. A living example of this art is painting in Herat mosque.
Shadad said that Soviet invasion has had a negative effect on development of art in the country. On one hand attempts are made that art should serve communism ideology; on the other hand artists were other killed or they Uft the country.
"Another problem is isolation of Afghan artists from the free world.
When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan all sorts of contacts with Western countries were cut. The only place the students and professors could go was the Soviet Union," Shadad said.
He said that the Union of Artists created by the regime also has created tremendous problems for artists and the faculty cfFine Arts of Kabul University. The Union wants to bring the artists under control of the regime, he said.
In the faculty of Fine Arts 1000 students are studying. Most of the students are girls because boys are taken to the army.
When he was asked what he wanted to do in Pakistan, he said ’There are enough people to fight, but we have few artists. I want to serve my country through art."
He said: "We should try to keep miniature art alive. It is an Afghan art and we must preserve it."
Soviet, regime blamed for plight of Kabulis
A Jami'at commander east of Kabul believes that the Kabul regime and Soviets are responsible for the food and fuel shortage in the capital.
Commander Anwar, who has control over Soroobi District east of Kabul, said to Afghanews that the Mujahideen do not attack non-military convoys. The Soviets and the Kabul regime do not allow non-military convoys to transport goods. All convoys are escorted by military units and this is the reason why they are attacked by the Mujahideen.
He said the Mujahideen suffer from the food shortages in Kabul city. On the contrary, the Soviets are happy about this development to make a cause out of it against the Resistance.
Anwar, who blocked Kabul-Jalalabad road for one month, said that the Mujahideen from Jami'at scored a major victory in the one-month operation. Three hundred enemy soldiers and officers were captured, 60 tanks and trucks of the enemy were destroyed and one MI-24 helicopter was shot down. The regime casualties were high. Hie Mujahideen captured 340 guns.
Anwar Khan said that regime forces under the direction of Soviet advisers tried to open the road but failed. The enemy launched three major attacks against the Mujahideen but the attacks were repulsed.
Commander Anwar said that the enemy made extensive use of the air force, and bombings were carried out day and night He said an average number of 50 jets took part in bombing missions each day in groups of 4 to 12 planes.
The Jami'at commander said the purpose of blocking the Kabul-Jalalabad road was to put military pressure both on Kabul and Jalalabad which are besieged by the Mujahideen. The enemy could not bring reinforcements to Jalalabad and this let the Mujahideen win several victories around Jalalabad, the provincial capital of Ningarhar.
Commander Anwar said the regime may last up to 6 months after the Soviet withdrawal. He said the Mujahideen ini Kabul province were meeting to draw up a military plan for Kabul. They have decided to divide Kabul into four zones and also have agreed that the Mujahideen from outside Kabul should participate in liberation of Kabul after approval of the Kabul Mujahideen.
Commander Anwar believes that the regime, after defeat in Kabul, will move to the North and fight from there. The Soviets have expanded Mazar city, on the Soviet border, to accommodate regime organizations.
Soviets have given regime chemical weapons
THE Kabul regime is among nine countries which have chemical weapons, the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute says.
The Mujahideen have reported on several occasions the use of chemical weapons against them by the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime.
The Geneva protocol of 1925, signed by 131 countries, forbids use of chemical weapons. The Soviets have threatened the Mujahideen that if they did not accept peace on Soviet terms, the Soviet Union would provide more sophisticated weapons to the regime.
Yuri Vorontsov told the Mujahideen delegation in Islamabad that the regime has weapons which it has not used (!) and that it will be provided with more sophisticated weapons.
The Soviets know that giving some tanks and long-range rockets will
not save the regime. Since the regime has been using ^hemical weapons in the war against Mujahideen, it is possi ble it may use these weapons when it faces real threat. Although the regime knows about the international reaction against use of chemical weapons it may use them out of desperation.
The Regime Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil, participated in the Paris conference which discussed ways or banning the use and manufacturing of chemical weapons.
Najib wanted to participate in the conference but after realizing that he was not welcomed by the host country he changed his mind.
Supporters of the Mujahideen in France and the Jami'at Office in Paris had sent letters to vthe French. Government not to permit the head of the Kabul regime to participate in the conference and to use the occasion for publicity.