 AFGHANsvs Volt No6. April 15.1986, Page2
 Herat
     THE MUJAHIDEEN from JaflU'at captured eight regime security post In Darb Malik area close to the city of Herat on March 19.
    The Mujahideen destroyed one tank and captured an armoured car. two heavy machine guns, one mortar. 30 Kaiashinkov rifles and seven communication seta.
    Twenty seven enemy soldiers were tilled and some others wounded. The Mujahideen captured 15 DRA soldiers.
    One Mujahid was killed and 10 others wounded.
 Baghian
     THE MUJAHIDEEN from Jam J at attacked a DRA unit In N&wbahar area of Andarab district killing eight militiamen and taking prisoner ten others on March 27.
    The arms seized from the posts were: one mortar, three heavy machine guns, 16 Kaiashinkov rifles, one R-105 communication set and some ammunition and foodstuff.
    The attack was launched by the Mujahideen from the central forces of the Council of the North and the local units.
    Commnader Nazar Mohammad was killed in the operation.
   Thirty militiamen were taken prisoners by the Mujahideen in Kaftar Khana in the lower parts of the Andarab valley on March 29.
   The Mujahdideen also captured four heavy machine guns, one mor tar and 25 Kaiashinkov rifles In the operation.
   Twenty DRA militiamen joined the Mujahideen bringing 2 heavy macnine guns and 15 Kaiashinkovs on March 25. The militiamen had contacted Commander Abdul Rawoof in Ghazmaraq village.
 Badakhshan
     SOVIET helicopter killed 17 and injured 25 others when it bombed a mosque in Jurm district of Badakhshan province on April first-eight Russian gunships fired rocket and dropped bombs at Ferghamoro village when the people had gathered in a mosque to say Junta prayers. The mosque was hit by rockets fired from the enemy helicopters killing and wounding those praying.
   The news ol bombardment was brought by Zahiruddin, 50, who has come to Pakistan to be treated. He was injured in the same incident.
   Zahiruddin said that as a result of the heavy bombardment of the village a large number of cattle were also killed. According to Zahiruddin, the Soviet aerial
 activities against the Mujahideen have increased in the past few months. He thinks it is a reaction to the new organizational restructure carried out by Aryanpoor and commander Sayed Najmuddin in the valley of Jurm.
 Far ah
     IN an ambush against an enemy military column, the Mujahideen destroyed two armoured cars in Tayoosak area about 20 kilometers from the provincial capital of Farah on March 6.
    The convoy was moving from jaween district to the provincial capital when it was attacked by the Mujahideen. Twenty enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded during the operation.
    In retaliation, the enemy bombed some villages near the ambush site and destroyed some houses.
 Helmand
      SOME posts were destroyed and two tanks were set ablaze when the Mujahideen attacked Sangeen district on March 22, More than 20 enemy troops were killed in the operation and 12 others wounded.
    The Muiahdideen captured one iruck. seven heavy machine guns and sixteen Kaiashinkov rifles.
    Three Mujahideen were kilted and 19 others sustainded injuries In the operation.
    The enemy sent reiniorcements and the fighting between the two sides still continues.
 Logar
     THE MUJAHIDEEN from Jami at shot down a Russian jet in Dashte Khaka while it was bombing the area, on March 31 195S. The report is