		3, February 1,1989, page 6
		
Evolution of the Islarr Panjshir IN the summer of 1974, I was in the classroom in the faculty of Engineering of Kabul University when I was told that I had an urgent meeting with a friend. I left the class and went to a house near the university campus. In the room were four people all of whom I knew, except one. I was summoned by this new man to be told about the movement's plan of action in the Panjshir valley. The man was Ahmad Shah, a student of the Polytechnic Faculty of Kabul University. The meeting was short. He told us about the communist activities in our area and the need to oppose them. He gave us a job to do and that was to survey the caves in Panjshir mountains for possible hiding places for our friends and caching of food We were supposed to carry out the survey during the summer vacations. One year passed and at the same time of the year 1 was summoned again. This time the plan was more serious. Masood told me and other friends from the valley to take with us one or two 'tiends and some weapons and ammuni-on for military action against the aid regime. The regime was preparing to cele-ate the second anniversary of its devolution". I had been involved in a iimilar attempt one year before which had failed. Total commitment to the cause and unlimited confidence in friends left no room to ask questions about the plan. Two students from Kabul University joined me and my brother. They were carrying two black briefcases in which two machine guns were hidden. Nobody suspected that we were involved in such a dangerous game. Summer was a good time to go to the countryside. It was picnic time. Four days after reaching the valley, I was summoned to a village called Baharak. It took me two hours by bicycle to reach there. I met a group of people whom 1 had not seen before. The atmosphere in the room was tense. They were talking about action. Masood seemed to be the leader of the group. Masood told me to go to my home town, Rukha, and bring friends to a designated spot. The tyre of my bicycle was punctured on the way. Leaving behind the cycle, I started to walk. Some minutes later Masood arrived. He was riding a bicycle too. We rode to the vi-	lie Movement in Afghai Uprising < cinity of Rukha town. Friends who were waiting for us joined the rest of the groups . Just before the beginning of the attack, an emotional scene was created by the group. They were praying for victory. They were weeping and asking almighty Allah to help them. At 2:00 a.m July 20, 1975 the action started. A few bullets were fired in the air. No body was killed or injured. The district headquarters of the Daud regime was captured and more than 20 bolt-action guns and some boxes of ammunition were seized. The road to Kabul was blocked and the telephone line was cut. Simultaneously, two sub-district headquarters in the valley were attacked and captured. By dawn the valley was liberated. That was the fust liberation of the valley. The local people thought that a coup had taken place and the Daud regime was overthrown. The sun rose and the people of the town were gathering around the radio receiver to know who was the leader of the coup. To their dismay they heard normal program on the radio and this was enough to realize that Kabul was still under Daud's control. This was worrying to them. Daud was famous for cruelty and the people were afraid of government reprisals against themselves. Hie people's worries were justified because governments punished the people of the area for the action of individuals. A brother and father got in trouble when his brother or son did something wrong. In a few moments all the government officials were arrested but they were treated properly. The ordinary prisoners of the district jail were released after a political lecture. The Mujahideen committed a mistake when they blew up the cash safe of the government's bank in broad daylight. This confused the people as to whether the group was fighting for a political cause or as a band of ordinary robbers. Not everyone was confused. A group of students from a religious school sent a delegation and offered their services but were told to wait. A group of students from Rukha high school who were affiliated to the movement also volunteered to join. A group of Mujahideen armed with captured weapons went to the mouth of the valley to block the road. There they clashed with a contingent of police who had come from Charikar, the provincial	listan - Part (3) of 1975 capital of Parwan, on hearing the news of the uprising . In the clash the police commander and some policemen were killed and the rest retreated. As time passed the tension mounted. Communist activists, playing on . the fear of the people of Daud's reprisal, encouraged them to react. When the first bus arrived from Kabul and the -driver said to the people that everything was normal in die capital the tension reached its peak. Thirty-six people scattered over a distance of 50 kilometers could not control a hostile population. The people involved in die action were members of the Islamic movement motivated by ideological reasons and came from different parts of Afghanistan. Most of them were the students of Kabul University. They also enjoyed die active support of some of the local population. It was decided to retreat to the mountains. The group was followed by a huge crowd of local people. The people were making a scene to save diem-selves from the regime's reprisals. While most of the people were interested in seeing the Mujahideen leave there were some who wanted to gain material rewards. They attacked the Mujahideen and even killed and captured some. The Mujahideen were fully armed but did not use force against the people. The news of the uprising reached Kabul by a driver. At 2:00 pm a few helicopters brought the first group of soldiers from 444 Commando Unit stationed in Balahisar. The group at the mouth of the valley also freed the local people's uprising. Some of than were killed by local people and others were captured and handed over to the defeated government forces. The two other groups in the upper part of the valley met the same end. By nightfall the government was in control of the situation. The Mujahideen had lost some of their men and some others were captured. The remaining men had hidden in the mountains. The cowardly soldiers of the regime treated the injured Mujahideen badly. They dragged Engineer Naim, who was injured in the leg, for half a mile and killed him. That was not enough. They burned his beard and threw his body from the mountain. After the first day the people were divided about the fairness of the way Turn to page (7)