AFGHAN N2WS
P-7
VOL,II, Mo. 7
 1-4-1936
 Ke said that there are similarities between Vietnam and Afghanistan,
 He'.called the Soviet invasion a historical mistake. He criticized the Soviets for their violation of human rights in Afghanistan,
 Afghan Hews thinks that Palme was more'outspoken against America in Vietnam them against Soviets in Afghanistan, Ke did not live longer enough to balance his 'actions but we hope his successors will do what he could not.
 The work on a new 50 minute documentary film will be finished verjr soon. The film, is made by an Australian journalist Chris Hook, who made two trips to: Afghanistan in 1934 and 1935, His film is about Mujahideen activities in Pamjshir valley and Paktia province.
 According to a. letter from our Tehran off ice, war-wounded Mujahids racing severe problems in the South-West of Afghanistan. The Iranian government is helping*them to some extent, but because of lack of equipment and facilities,cases which need sophisticated operations, can not be treated there *                                 ^
 It shbuld be noted that international relief organizations do not have medical activities in ..ran. Je draw the attention of international relief organizations towards this problem, in order to find a solution to it. As the time passes and the war becomes more intense, the problem exacerbates.
 Let us try to save the precious lifes of those who have fallen wounded , the victims of Soviet aggression.
 It was reported in some papers recently that a Iv.G.3 agent who had defected to the \?est and la*er returned to Soviet Union was executed in a-
 jail. The family of the executed person oaid 14 rubles for the cost of
                     was
 the ammunition whichufired to kill him. The story reveals the true inhuman face of Soviet Coramunisia and the way they treat their subjects.
                              KHALILI^S_POB^S
 •Some of Khalili's poems have been translated into French arid work to translate more is underway. Afghan Hews believes that it is a good step towards introducing our literature, culture and tradition to French spe
 akers.
 Translation work is done by a student of oriental studies in Paris University.