AFGHANews Vol7, No 18, September 15,1991, page ©
By: Khalilullah Khalili
it i n • i i
Sayyed Hussain
I reached Andarab via Shoorab and Nahrin. Sayyed Hussain, the deputy of King Habibullah, was there. Despite knowing his rude manners and unpleasant character, I rushed to inform him about situation in Mazar and Dehdadi. I thought that he should be fully informed so that he would not lead the army of Islam (about ten thousand strong) into disaster. I found him at Banu village in the shadow of the poplar trees. At first, he looked angry and Welcomed me with insulting remarks. When I explained to him what I knew, he became softer and listened to me carefully.
Beside Sayyed Hussain, there was Ebrahim Baig - die respected'and beloved leader of the Bukhara freedom fighters who had fought Stalin's troops. He was accompanied by about 2000 men, some of whom were soldiers of the deposed king of Bukhara, Amir Alam Shah. Ebrahim Baig was a leader whom I admired very much. He was a legendary figure of Mujahideen of Bukhara. Talking to him was a great honor for me. I found him graceful, decisive and brave. He always used to carry a holy Quran, a sword and a rifle.
Sayyed Hussain and his forces, along with Ebrahim Baig and his men, left Banu for Nahrin. I accompanied them. After spending five days in Nahrin, I was ordered by Sayyed Hussain to go to Aibak to mobilize people and prepare the logistics.
Sayyed Hussain and Tashqurghan
We mobilized the people of Aibak and the surrounding areas for Jehad. We also bought some food and other necessities. The people of Aibak, Khuram and Sar Bagh cooperated with us wholeheartedly. In Aibak I received a report that half of the forces of Sayyed Hussain (5000 men), under the command of Abdul Ghias Kohdamani, had been sent to Tashqurghan via Abdan-i- Mir Alam in the dark of the.night, and the rest had taken up positions in Kunduz under his own command. Unfortunately, in Sayyed Hussain's army, there was no medical facility to help the wounded and sick. Commander Abdul Gias, who was a brave soldier but knew
nothing about leadership, believed that presence of medical teams in the army would soften the soldiers. Ebrahim Baig was also kept in Kunduz.
Abdul Ghias' forces faced the enemy in the suburbs of Tashqurghan. Despite heavy enemy bombardment and artillery fire, die Mujahideen fought bravely for three days and nights. The enemy were defeated and forced to leave the city. In this battle, in which both men and women participated, the Mujahideen lost about four thousand men with hundreds more wounded.
Commander Abdul Ghias ordered his men to celebrate the victory by lighting torches all over the city. The celebrations, unfortunately, did not last long. While our forces were still asleep, enemy reinforcements from Mazar attacked Tashqurghan by air and land.
Fierce fighting broke out The bombardment was even heavier than before.
Ebrahim Baig and Sayyed Hussain could not reach Tashqurghan due to the bombardment At last the city fell into enemy hands. Thousands were killed and wounded. Innocent and defenceless civilians along with their children escaped to the mountains. Many followers of Dah Mullah Arab were martyred. Sayyed Hussain retreated to Nahrin. The enemy forces marched to Rubatak via Tangi-i-Tashqurghan. On their way to Rubatak the Russian troops destroyed houses, burned crops aid gardens and killed innocent people. Around four thousand were killed and hundreds died due to lack of water.
Despite all these barbaric killing and brutalities, there was still scattered fighting against the enemy, and the Mujahideen launched night raids. Mirza Mohammad Qasim, Sher Ali, Da Mullah Arab and Khalifa Qezel Ayak were still leading their exhausted forces.
Kabul
King Habibullah and his foreign minister Attaul Haq were waiting for me at the royal palace (Arg-i-Shahi) where I arrived at about 10 p.m. I was ordered to describe the situation in full detail. The king praised the bravery of Mazar's people. He nodded regretfully when I told him of the escape of Sayyed Hussain. He asked about Ebrahim Baig and I explained to him that if Sayyed Hussain had given him
freedom of action the situation would have been different The King could not believe the Soviets' shameless and brutal bombardments. My whole story was a surprise to him. His court minster, Sher Jan Khan elaborated on what I cbuld not explain clearly to him.
Saddened by the news of the Soviet invasion, he said: "There is no other way than to call King Amanullah from Kandahar and General Nadir from Paktia. Let them rule the country and myself lead the army towards the North and help the king of Bukhara to win back his throne." His minister of foreign affairs suggested that first of all they should summon the Soviet ambassador and ask him to provide an off! rial explination of the invasion. Everyone agreed. Next day, a Soviet diplomat was summoned at the foreign ministry. After a long talk he wasgiv-en an official protest letter regarding the invasion. Sufficient documents were provided to him attesting to the Russian aerial bombardments and the destruction they caused. The Soviet diplomat said that he was not aware of die incident; he would ask Moscow about it and would convey Moscow's reply to them. The embassies of Turkey, Iran and other friendly countries woe also informed of the invasion.
King Amanullah
King Amanullah was in Kandahar to mobilize people in order to win his throne back from King Habibullah.
Nadir Khan's men had enterer Paktia and advanced to Logar. Amanullah realized that the Soviets had tricked him. They wanted to capture Kabul the same way they had captured Mazar. There are many possibilities why Amanullah might have started to suspect the Soviets' motives:
(a)	Ghulam Nabi might have in formed Amanullah of their evil intentions.
(b)	Amanullah himself might have realized the sensitivity of the situation by studying the foreign press.
(c)	Mustafa Kamal, the leader of Turkey and a personal friend of Amanullah, might have advised him not to accept Soviet help.
(d)	The old and respected Afghan politician and patriot, Mahmood Tarzi, might had sent him the following verse: "Being punished in Hell is much better than going to Paradise with the help of