flFGHRN NEUS ','QL III, NO. 4, 15/2/ 199? PAGE 3
                            BA DA KHSHAN PROVINCE
    A late report from Wardooj valley of Badakhshan province, sent by commander Najmuddin. says that Mujahideen under his command are facing great financial difficulties. Since March of last year, he has lost 86 men in the battle. The families of these people are in desperate need of help.
    It is added in the report that due to difficult terrain sending reports on a monthly basis is very difficult,
    The Commander give the details of the three following operations:
    16/10/1986. Four tanks and four trucks of the enemy were ambushed and destroyed in upper part of Wardooj valley between Sofian and Teergaran villages All the occupants of the mentioned vehicles were killed, the number of which is not given in the report* One Mujahid was martyred and 3 others wounded
    6/12/1986. Mujahideen killed 25 persons from the combined Soviet-Puppet forces in Oshkan village in the lower part of Wardooj valley
    13/12/1987. An enemy helicopter! type not mentioned) was hit with DShK fire and crushed in a village in the lower part of the valley about 8 Km from Baharak Soviet base. All the occupants of the mentioned helicopter were killed and Mujahideen captured five guns.
    Wardooj is a narrow valley which connects Eshkashem town on the Soviet border to Baharak and Faizabad. This valley has been the scene of heavy clashes between Mujahideen and communists (Soviet and puppets) in the past eight years.
    Najmuddin is the commander of the valley Soviets have a base in Baharak sub-district in the lower part of the valley another in the upper and in Zaibak sub-district. They also have a strong post in the middle of the 50 Km long valley
                                HERAT PROVINCE
    5/2/1987 Three army trucks which were carrying more than 100 soldiers and militias were ambushed in Sobol wa Rozanak about 45 Km East of Islam Qala (a town on the Iran border) The soldiers surrendered along with their wejyjons and the trucks were set on
    fire
    2/2/1987. Mujahideen from Jami at attacked enemy posts along the border with Iran. 23 soldiers were killed. 14 wounded and 31 captured. Mujahideen siezed more than 40 guns.
    Three Mujahideen were martyred and 14 others wounded
    4/2/1987 Mujahideen attacked enemy positions in Pushtoon Zarghoon district about 70 Km East of Herat city. Five enemy soldiers were killed and three captured with 4 Ak-
    47s.
    Two Mujahideen were martyred and one other wounded
                                     PANJSHIR
 | 5/2/19S7.According to a report sent by Commnader Masood, Soviets heavily bombed the i positions of the Mujahideen around the puppet garrison in Pushghoor. The report adds ! that sparodic fighting has continued in the valley since the announcement of the ceasefire by the puppet regime. No more detail is given
                             NANGARHAR PROVINCE
    Mujahideen from Jami at have carried out a series of ground-to-ground rocket attacks