Afghans lose a supporter
Louis Dupree passes away
Dr. Louis Dupree, ~an American scholar who spent 30 years in Afghanistan and wrote many articles about the country and its people, died of lung cancer at the age of 64 in the US.
When the communists took power in 1978, Dupree's visa was terminated and he was among the first refugees to come to Peshawar.
After a few months he went back to Kabul to continue his work but was arrested by the security men of Hafiyzullah Amin. He has published the account of his experience in the communist jail.
When travel to Afghanistan was not possible, he spent some of his time in Peshawar to continue his work.
Dr. Dupree wrote many articles for five American Universities about the history and people of Afghanistan.
The result of his work was published in a book, called Afghanistan, in 1973.
Dupree went to Afghanistan in 1949 to start his work. He travelled to many parts of Afghanistan.
He and his wife, Nancy who is also a scholar, travelled in their landro-ver jeep. When they were expelled from Afghanistan, they brought the jeep to Peshawar. The jeep was painted in green, a color the Mujahideen like.
Dupree remained active in the past ten years of the war. He spoke in many gatherings and wrote many articles about Afghanistan.
He was a scholar but his long stay in Afghanistan had made him a close friend of Afghans.
Once in the beginning of the eighties during a discussion about Afghanistan in the US State Department an expert on the Soviet Union said that the Afghans had no chance of winning the war. He said that history shows that the Soviets never left a country once they have put their hands on it. The expert argued that the Soviet Union was a super power with vast resources and the biggest war machine die world ever have seen. On the other hand Afghanistan was a backward country with no army, a divided resistance, little organization, and so on. Louis was there and he objected. He told the man:" Perhaps you know the Soviet Union but it is obvious that you do not know the Afghans, because if you did you would also know that
Turn to page (4 )
AFGHANews Vol5, No 7, April 1,1989, page ©
Soviet Muslims fight for religious freedom
After replacing the official religious leader of Central Asia, Muslims in Tashkent staged another demonstration demanding Uzbaki to become the official language of the Uzbakistan Republic.
The demonstration was held in Tashkent, the capital of Uzbakistan Republic, two weeks ago. The Central Asian Republics of the Soviet Union which are dominated by a Muslim population are forced to use Russian as their official language. This was part of a Russification program in the area carried out first by the Tzarist empire and then by the communists.
Muslims in the Islamic Republics in Central Asia had a rich civilization and culture which was crushed by the invaders. To deprive the new generations of Central Asians from access to their glorious history, the communists banned use of local languages in official works and schools.
Earlier a group of Muslims staged a demonstration against the official spiritual leader of Central Asia, Shamsuddin Baba Khanov, and accused him of drunkenness and womanizing. The 67-year old Mufti (title of the official clergy in Central Asia) was forced to resign on February 6.
A temporary Mufti was appointed. He is Mohammad Sadiq, a 36-year old clergyman who has studied Islam in Libya.
Hundreds of Muslims from Uzbakistan and the neighboring* Republics of Kazakistan and Tadjikistan inarched through the streets of Tashkent
after Friday prayers on February 2. They demanded the dismissal of the Mufti.
Soviet official media did not report the event in detail and tried to play it down. The foreign journalists who had gone to Tashkent, a city close to the Afghan border, to cover the withdrawal of the Soviet troops reported the event.
Foreign juornalists interviewed individual Muslims outside Tilla-Shaikh mosque in Tashkent. One interviewee said: "Our Mufti is a terrible man. He drinks, he smokes, ‘he plays billiards and he has been photographed with prostitutes in Sochi. There are five Islamic laws and he breaks them all”.
There are 50 million Muslims living in the Soviet Union most of them in Central Asia republics.
Goibachev has tried to give the impression that he tolerates practice of religion in the Soviet Union. He has given more freedom to the Christian church and Jewish worshippers but (he situation for Muslims has not changed.
The Soviet leadership will have a lot of reservations about granting freedom to Muslims because of the nature of Islamic and the sensitive area in which the Muslims live.
Islam is a way of life. Muslims will not be satisfied by just going to the mosque and applying Islam to wedding and burial ceremonies.
The Muslims in Central Asia live close to Iran and Afghanistan. They have ethnic connections with the people in these countries. The Soviets lost a 9-year long war against the Muslim guerrillas in Afghanistan and this victory of the Mujahideen will give a morale boost to the oppressed Soviet Muslims to stand and demand freedom of worship.