AFGHANews Vol 5, No 12, June 15,1989, page©
Obituaries
Jami'at commander in Badghis killed in action
Naik Mohammad Khan, Jami’at chief commander in Badghis province was killed in action on May 19.
More than 1000 Mujahideen under the command of Naik Mohammad tad launched a massive attack to capture the provincial capital of Badghis. The fighting continued for 24 hours.
The Mujahideen had liberated the major part of the town and the city airport when a mortar shell injured commander Naik Mohammad. After a few hours Commander Naik Mohammad Khan was martyred.
After the incident, the Mujahideen who were close to a major victory could not keep their offensive momentum and retreated.
^Naik Mohammad, 41, was bom in apAimaq peasant family in a village called Tagab in the center of Badghis. lis father was a farmer who was very keen to said his son to the local school which was three or four hours walk from their village. He used to go to school either waking or riding a donkey.
After completing primary and high school in Badghis, Naik Mohammad went to Herat for further studies in the field of education. He studied three years in Darulmoalimeen (teacher training institution) where he was trained as a teacher.
from 1971-1978 he served as a teacher and then as principal in the Badghis high school. "Even before the Soviet invasion, Naik Mohammad warned his students of the Soviet ex pansionist desires. He spoke of Tajikistan and other Soviet occupied Islamic lands which were invaded and occupied in the time of Lenin and $talin," said a Mujahid from Badghis who was his student before the war.
After the communist coup in Kabul, Naik Mohammad formed a group, armed them with traditional weapons available and attacked the communist administration in Qalai Naw. He captured government offices and arrested die officers.
In late 1979, Naik Mohammad joined Jami'at Islami Afghanistan and was appointed the commander of the province.
Having a teaching backjground, Naik Mohammad showed much interest in the education of Mujahideen and the civilian population. He has left behind a widow and two children.
After assuming the command post he did not travell out of the country. He launched many successful attacks against the enemy forces. Here are brief account of some of those operations:
1.	In 1985, his Mujahideen captured about 400 DRA soldiers and officers in Kotal-i-Khaki.
2.	His Mujahideen destroyed 20 tanks, armored cars and tracks of the enemy and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy in Kotal-i-Subzak in 1986.
3.	In the spring of 1986, the Mujahideen under his command foiled an Soviet commando operation in Pestuliq area and inflicted heavy losses on them.
4.	In 1983, his Mujahideen destroyed more than 50 tanks and trucks of an enemy convoy which was on its way to Qali-i-Naw, the provincial capital.
After his death, the military affairs of the province is supervised by a military council.
Commander Naik Mohammad worked closely with Commander Isamail Khan of Herat.
His death is considered a great loss for the Mujahideen and Jami'at is deprived of a good commander at a very critical time in the struggle.
Jami'at commander in Kabul killed
Abdul Ghafoor Sokhanyar, Jami’at commander in Shakardara was martyred on April 13.
He Was born in Qala-i-Niazi village of Shakardara district. North of the city of Kabul in 1959. He studied primary and high schools in Qala-e-Murad Beg high school. He joined Jami'at Island when he was a student
In 1976 he joined Bagrami Textile Mill as a clerk and remained there for three years.
After the communist coup of 1978 he left his job and participated in the armed struggle against the communists.
Sokhanyar is Dr. Khan Agha’s brother, a capable commander of Jami'at on the outskirts of the capital.
Together they inflicted heavy
losses on the enemy and gained a reputation among the Mujahideen. The two brothers built one of the most organized fronts close to the city of Kabul. They worked closely with Commander Masood. Sokhanyar had been injured several times.
When he was preparing an ambush an enemy artillery shell killed him.
Jami'at cameraman killed
Engineer Abdul Basit son of Maulawi Abdul Satar, a residence of Khash sub-district of Badakhshan was killed in action on May 10 in Jurm district
He was born in 1959 in Khash. After primary school in Khash he studied in Kokcha high school in Faizabad, the provincial capital of Badakhshan.'
In 1977 became a student of the Engineering Faculty of Kabul University. He left his studies in 1981 and joined the Mujahideen in Maidan and Wardakand spent sometime there.
In Peshawar he started to work as a member of the Film Center of Jami'at He took a short course in use of camera and filming Techniques in France in 1986.
In 1987 he went to Badakhshan to report the war. He worked closely with Sayed Najmuddin, Jami'at commander of Jurm and Wardooj valleys.
Engineer Basit had already lost two brothers in Jehad.
Measles kills half of children in Chore
Jami'at commander in Taiwara district Ghore province, said that half pf the children of that district died of measles, whooping-cough and bronchitis last winter.
Abdul Baqi said that in the two districts of Taiwara and Pesawand there is only one health clinic with limited amount of medicine and insufficient equipment
He added that the poor economic conditions of the people and harsh winter contributes increased sickness among the children.
He said that in 1983,60% of all the children in the district died of measles, whooping-cough and bronchitis.
He complained that the Jami'at Health Committee and other relief organizations did nothing to improve the situation.