                                                       nrnnnii heus m.,pl no. i, 15/2/1*300, puce h
Another well-known commander of the enemy who had many posts under his control, was taken prisoner with 6 AK-A7S while 2 of his companions write wounded.
                                             KIJNDUZ I’KUVINCE
13/1/1900: A group of: Mujahideen belonging to Commander Ahdul Basir were surrounded by enemy forties in Kubhnni area where H Mujahideen were Injured as they fought their way out of the seige with the help of other Mujahideen groups who veto fighting to help break the siege.
Later on, enemy Ml 13s and heavy artilleries shelled nearby houses in the area where a great number of cattle were killed and some houses were destroyed. There is no mention in the report about human losses.'
                                ALLIANCE CHAIRMAN MET CORDOVEZ
Younus Khalis, chairman of the Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen met Gordovez, the UH Secretary General's special envoy on Afghanistan, on Saturday 6th of January in Peshawar.
Mr. Cordovez who is trying to find a political solution to the Afghan issue through Geneva proximity talks, wanted to meet the Mujahideen leaders. This was granted to him after some hesitation on the part of the Resistance.
The Mujahideen did not want their meeting to be interpreted as a sign of support for the present Geneva talks which does not include them as a principal part of the conflict.
The meeting took place in the headquarters of the Alliance and in the presence of the representatives of the parties which have formed the Alliance.
The meeting was useful to both sides and helped them to understand the situation better. It was an opportunity for Mr. Gordovez to hear directly from the Mujahideen leaders their views about the problem which he is mediating to solve.
ITo doubt the meeting was an important step towards understanding the problem but it would be over-optimistic to think that the solution to the problem is close. The basic demands of the Mujahideen that they and the Soviets should be recognized as the principal sides of the conflict, and the people of Afghanistan should be granted the right for self-determination after the Soviet troops withdrawal, is still in force and shows the principal position of the Resistance.
                                        THE AEGHAN TRAGEDY
The Afghan tragedy is the name of a book printed by the British Refugee Council with the help of a number of other British Relief Organisations.
The book starts with the following paragraph:
Some international crises - the Ethiopian famine, for instance -capture the world's imagination and immediately provoke a cumpassionatn and construct;Ivo rnsponse. The plight of the Afghan