AFGHANews Vol 6, No 10, May 15,1990, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Sufi Mohammad Saeed
Sufi Mohammad Saeed was bom Mustafa (Kefayatullah) and they blew from Mazar-i-Sharif under the com-41 years ago in Shotol Valley of UPtwo bridges and suspended traffic on mand of Zabihullah Khan and a group I	Jabulseraj district in Parwan	the highway for one week.	of Mujahideen from Shamali under the
! province.	After 40 days of fighting, the	command of Major Enayatullah came
!	Mohammad Saeed was six months	Mujahideen retreated due	to shortages	to the Panjshir valley to help them,
j old when his father, Faiz Mohammad, of ammunition. Mohammad Saeed was There first operation against the redied and when he became two years using a PPSh gun which was heavy and gime forces was earned out in Shaba, i old his mother married and he was tak- its round magazine was loose causing Masood himself led the attack. A sup-! en care of by his aunt. Mohammad him to have a lot of trouble.	ply truck of the enemy was destroyed,
| Saeed has several step brothers and sis-	He was among the last group who	two soldiers were killed, two injured
j ters. One of his brothers died in fight- retreated. He and his colleagues en- and three soldiers were captured. They | ing against the Soviets.	gaged the advancing enemy forces in captured one Kalashnikov rifle, 5000
|	Mohammad Saeed went to a	Panjpiran-i-Panjshir and	killed or	Afghani and a few blankets,
j mosque school at the age of five and wounded 25 soldiers.	After this achievement they came
learned the basics of Islam. He did not The retreat for Mohammad Saeed to Parandeh Valley and started to meet | attend any formal school but has and his friends was not smooth: Local the people of Bazarak at nights and per-| learned how to read and write.	people scolded them for retreating and suaded them to support them. After a
| At the age of 15, he went with one leaving them exposed to the communist while, they established their base in | of his cousins to Mazar-i-Sharif where forces. They even disarmed some of his Manjawaor and Parandeh side valleys, he helped him to learn how to drive an friends. He met Commander Masood in They started to plant mines bn the automobile. He started to earn his liv- Dahn-i-Riwat in the upper part of the road. Two of the mines did not explode ing by working as a truck driver in the valley where he was recovering from at the right time but caused panic Ministry of Public Works.	his injuries. Mohammad Saeed referred amongst the enemy soldiers. The ene-
Later he went to Iran and worked to the time after the retreat as being my evacuated the two sub-districts in as a taxi driver. Mohammad Saeed very difficult days of his struggle. The Panjshir in a hurry and the Mujahideen liked to see many places and this desire local people were not ready to help captured 60 soldiers and v 41 took him to the Soviet Union and them because they feared communist Kalashnikov rifles from Dara valley. Poland as a tourist. During his visit to reprisals. For 12 days they faced food The Communists' control now was lim-the Soviet Union, he wanted to talk to shortages and did not find any food oth- ited to Rukha. the ordinary people in Azarbaijan er than com ears which they fried and Two weeks after their retreat the (USSR), but the police prevented him ate.	.	communist forces launched a surprise
from doing so.	A	fter the Mujahideen’s retreat, a	attack against the	Mujahideen in
During his stay in Iran the uprising	group of people from Nooristan	Bazarak killing 18	of them	including
against the Shah had started,	who were led by Maulawi	major Enayatullah.
Mohammacj Saeed sympathized with	Abdur	Razaq reached Panjshir to help In 1979 the	Soviets	invaded
the followers of Imam Khomeini and Masood and his men. They engaged Afghanistan but the winter passed with-helped them by transporting their the enemy in two places but after loos- out any major engagement.
I weapons from one place to another in ing some men they also retreated. The The Soviets launched their first at-] his taxi. Since he was a foreigner he government's control in the valley had tack against Panjshir in March 1980.
! was not suspected by the Shah's police, extended up to Khench.	Sufi Saeed and some other Mujahideen
While he was in Iran he heard news of Commander Masood went to clashed with them in Parandeh side val-an uprising against the Taraki regime. Paryan and called a meeting of elders ley killing a few soldiers. The Soviet The day Imam Khomeini returned from the Paryan, Khawak and Tul side forces were in the valley when Masood I to Iran from Paris he left Iran and came valleys to discuss the situation.	sent Sufi Saeed and Lieutenant Agha
to Kabul.	The meeting which was convened Gul to Shotol and Jabulseraj to recruit
In Kabul he and his friends were in the house of Fazel Ahmad in Shar-i- people in those areas. He gave them discussing the possibilityjof taking part Beland village, decided that fighting 350 rounds of ammunition. After two in an anti-regime uprising. In the against the regime should continue, days of their arrival in Shotol, the spring of 1979, he returned to his na- Sufi Saeed recalled an unfortunate inci- Soviet forces left Panjshir concluding a tive village in Shotol.	dent involving himself. He was on his week-long operation.
In summer of 1979, the	way to the meeting when some local	ommander Saeed established a
Mujahideen under the leadership of	people suspected him of being a regime	I	Mujahideen base in Shotol and
Commander Masood forced the gov-	spy and beat him and confiscated his	started to operate in the lower
emment troops in Panjshir to flee, money, gun and coat.	psri of the valley called Rah-i-Tang.
Mohammad Saeed and other villagers' Masood asked the people to give He used his base to participate in nu-first revolutionary action was the de- some of their young people as volun- merous operations which include the struction of part of the road to delay teers to be trained as Mujahideen, following major conflicts: the retreat of the enemy.	Among the first men who volunteered 1- In 1981, when a regime regi-
Two days later, he met with to be trained were Mohammad Aman, ment which was going from Jabulseraj Commander Masood and joined the Ghafor Khan, Mohammad' Pana, to Glulbahar Textile Mills was attacked Mujahideen who fought the regime Ghulam Mohammad, Gulhaider, Shair by the Mujahideen under the command forces in Gulbahar, Jabulseraj and Dad, Mohammad Mirza, Abdul Aziz of Mohammad Saeed and Ghulam Ali. Salang.	and Mohammad Saeed himself.	Fighting continued the whole day and
He went to the Salang Valley with Meanwhile a group of Mujahideen 65 tanks and trucks of the enemy were