AFGHANews Vol 8, No 18 & 19, October 1,1992, page ©
Cleanup operation restores confidence in government
From page (1)
robbery were hanged too. Scores of criminals were sentenced to imprisonment.
While the ordinary people and Mujahideen were satisfied with the severe punishment awarded to these criminals, which was necessary to restore law and order in the capital, some foreign circles and Afghans living in exile criticized it.
The reaction of Amnesty International to hanging criminals was predictable because that organization is opposed to execution. Rejecting the criticism of foreigners and some Afghans livings in exile. President Rabbani-said that the Islamic State will deal with criminals under Islamic law.
r
He denied charges of violation of! human rights and rejected any political and ethnic consideration in the decision of the court. He added that the decision to punish criminals was taken to improve the law and order situation in the country.
The ceasefire between Hezb islami and the government forces is holding. Several peace committees, coming from different parts of Afghanistan, have reached Kabul to make sure that problems are solved politically. While the Ningarhar peace committee initiated the peace movement, others joined the process later. Regional rivalries played a key role in . formation of these delegations.
These peace committees are not just mediators but they also have their own political demands. For example, the delegation coming from the southwestern provinces demanded the formation of a Loya Jirga to form the interim government. Preservation of peace is not the only objective of people involved in these peace committees. The head of one peace mission was inducted into the cabinet.
By improving the security situation, the government has been able to take steps to provide food and fuel supplies for the people. President Rabbani asked the Pakistani and Iranian officials, during his visit to Islamabad and Teheran, to provide assistance to people of Afghanistan. Their reaction was positive. Some other countries have also promised to send food and fuel for the people of Afghanistan.
The government is also busy restoring the services that were disrupted by Hikmatyar's attack on Kabul. Electricity is restored to some parts of
the city; papers are being published; communication is partially restored; and the bus service in the city has been resumed. The highways are open and the dispatch of food assistance by Pakistan has begun. Refugees who fled the capital during the recent attacks have started returning home.
President Rabbani met with Hikmatyar in Paghman to djscuss the situation. The meeting was jointly organized by Prof. Sayyaif and Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi. These talks made significant progress. The state-controlled radio and television which labeled Hiktmatyar as ’criminal’ during his rocket attacks on Kabul, called him ‘ "Esteemed Hikmatyar" while reporting the meeting.
Abdus Saboor Farid, who was sacked from his post as the Prime Minister because to his support for the attack on Kabul, returned from Pakistan to Char ASyab to-'meet his leader. He then returned to Koliistafi where he is facing a fevolt by some of Hezb’s local commanders. Severe infighting has been reported between Farid and his rivals in Kohisian.
Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood also paid a visit to Parwan to offer condolences for the death of about 400 people killed by recent floods in that province. He also met with the rep resentatives of the people in the area to inform them about the recent developments in the country. Masood asked the people to cooperate with the govern ment to re-establish its adminstrative offices in the districts and provinces. His trip to Parwan province proved very useful and paved the way for coordination of the people with the Islamic State.
Avoid entanglement
The ship seemed about to sink, and his fellow-passengers who had laughed at the Nasruddin's warnings that they should prepare their souls for the next world fell on their knees and cried out for help. In their lamentations they were promising what they would do if they were saved...
"Steady, friends!" shouted Nasruddin. "Such prodigality with your worldly goods! Avoid entanglement, as you have in your lives so far. Trust me!
I think I see land,"
Strange that you should ask...
Nasruddin climbed into someone’s kitchen garden and started filling a sack with everything that he could lay his hands on.
A gardener saw him and came running. "What are you doing here?"*
”1 was blown here by a high wind.”
"And who uprooted the vegetables?"
"I caught hold of them to stop myself being swept along."
"And how does it come that there are vegetables in that sack?"
"Thai is just what I was wondering about when you interrupted me."
jet is like a.
Prophet then clasped his hands with the fingers interlaced (while
saying that).
[At - Bukhari]