AFGHANews Vol7, No 24, December 15,1991, page ©
OIC supports Mujahideen Hidden war
The Sixth Islamic Summit, held in Dakar, Senegal, from 9-12 December, passed dozens of resolutions on political, financial and cultural issues concerning the Muslim world.
The summit passed a resolution on Afghanistan calling for a comprehensive political solution of the Afghan issue.
The resolution on Afghanistan, tabled by Pakistan, was similar to the resolution passed by the foreign ministers of Islamic countries in Istanbul, Turkey, this year with two additional points:
it supported the outcome of the Moscow talks between the Mujahideen and Soviet leaders,
and appreciated the OIC secretary-general's decision of appointing a special representative to coordinate the efforts of OIC in finding a political settlement of the issue.
The resolution was first tabled in the foreign ministers' meeting. Representatives of Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran and Saudi Arabia spoke in support of the resolution. None opposed it.
A six-member delegation of the Mujahideen headed by Sediq Saljoogi took part in the proceedings of the pre-summit meeting of foreign ministers. The members of the delegation were Mohammad Ismail Seddiqi, Sultan Mohammad Bonyad, Mohammad Es'haq, Ishaq Akhlaqi and Dr. RiazL The Mujahideen delegation in the summit was headed by Sebghatullah Mujaddidi, and the members of the delegation included Prof. Rabbani, Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi, Sayyed Ahmad Gailani and Ishaq Akhlaqi.
The Mujahideen delegation held private meetings with the heads of state and foreign ministers of some Islamic countries. The Mujahideen were accepted as a full member of the organization in 1989. The Afghan seat in the OIC had remained vacant since December 27 of 1979.
The OIC Secretary General Hamid al-Gabid presented a report on the situation in Afghanistan to the summit. The leaders of several countries supported the Jehad of Afghan people in their addresses to the summit.
Here are the main points of the draft resolution passed by the summit on Afghanistan:
•The summit commended the heroic struggle of the people of Afghanistan for the liberation of their homeland and recognized and supported the role of
the Afghan Mujahideen for the restoration of the independent, non-aligned and Islamic status of Afghanistan.
•It called for a comprehensive political settlement so that conditions of peace and stability can be created in Afghanistan.
•The summit supported the efforts of the Afghan Mujahideen to establish a broad-based government in Afghanistan.
•It appreciated the efforts of the UN. Secretary General, including his latest initiative of 21 May 1991, to promote a comprehensive political settlement, which also envisages a role for other international organizations, especially the OIC.
•It was satisfied with the positive declarations unanimously adopted by the tripartite meetings between the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the leaders of the Afghan Mujahideen parties, held in Islamabad and in Tehran.
•It welcomed the appointment of the special representative of the secretary-general for Afghanistan, and urged member states to extend their cooperation and support to enable the OIC to make its due contribution to the peace-fill settlement of the Afghan problem.
•It welcomed and supported the recent dialogue between the Afghan Mujahideen and the Soviet Union and the joint statement issued by them, especially the agreement on the need to establish an Islamic interim government.
•It called on all states as well as national and international organizations to extend assistance to alleviate the suffering of Afghan refugees.
•The conference appealed to all member states to extend financial and moral support for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
-QrQ: i}:
-YV-
HFGHHIlems mishes -j^T-
V' happg Denj Year Q' and
■&
mernj Chrismas
toits	5^
Christian readers



From page (4)
their troop withdrawal. In an unprovoked armed action by the Soviets in south Salang, more than 400 people, mainly women and children, were killed. The official reason given at that time was "to open the road blocked by the Mujahideen of Ahmad Shah Masood". The book quotes Soviet senior commanders as saying that the attack was launched not because the Mujahideen blocked the road, but because of fear that they might do so after the withdrawal. This crime was designed to buy time for the Kabul regime.
The writer has made some serious factual errors regarding the Mujahideen. He says, for example, that a portrait Che Guevara hangs in the headquarters of Masood. I have spent much time with Masood, but I never saw the picture of Che or any other non-Muslims in his office or anywhere in his territory.
Despite its shortcomings, the bode is very informative in describing the situation in the Soviet camp. One flaw is its lack of attention to the Kabul regime. It treats the Soviet Union and the Mujahideen as the two main parties in the conflict
Alam Khan
From page (5)
Mujahideen, he is a frightening figure for the enemy.
He works closely with the Supervisory Council. He has met with Commander Masood many times and has attended military classes instructed by Masood. He attended the sixth meeting of the Supervisory Council in Taliqan in the spring of 1991.
Under Alam Khan's leadership, the Mazar front of Jami'at has become militarily strong.
Help us publish AFGHANews!
Please Send your donations to the following account number:
JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan