AFGHAN NEWS
No. 20
P-66
N_E_W_S
PANJSHIR VALLEY 21-11-85                        “
According to a set plan, Mujahideen s tartedJ.f iring heavy weapons against the enemy throughout the Panjshir,
In Pushghour nine outposts have been destroyed, 29 soldiers and 8 officers (ERA) were taken prisoners. Mujahideen captured 3° AX-47s and 2 PX heavy machineguns. The enemy headquarters in Pushghour was hit by 107nun rockets which caused many casualties among the enemy. One. Soviet advisor was among those who were killed.
In Zenai (a village 3km away from. Pushghour), Mujahideen destroyed a tank with all its personnel and captured 6 AX-47s. There are no reports from other areas of the Panjshir.
On the same day the Soviets, after a heavy aerial bombardment,landed troops in Dara. hide valley. The enemy is pouring more troops into the Panjshir by helicopters each day.
                           HERAT PROVINCE 23-10.-85 ■ " ~
The Soviets launched a massive attack against Herat city.„ The enemy operation which was conducted111an encirclement-suppression type of operation., continued for 15 days. Seventy four helicopters, 24 Jets and more than 1000 AFVs took part in the operation. They bombarded different parts of the city from both the air and ground and caused a lot of material damages..
The Mujahideen fought well and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. About, 50 different types, of tanks, APCs and trucks were destroyed and a great number of Soviet and their puppet troops were killed or wounded. Ten Mujahids were martyred and others were wounded.
It should be mentioned here that Herat is one of the major fronts in Afghanistan and is dominated by Mujahideen from Jaraiat and commanded by Mohammad Esmail,
                                    ike _ It'S it? I § _ 5? § 12>:S1S
During the 5th and 6th Panjshir offensives, civilians evacuated the main valley and went.to the- side valleys. They had only prepared enough foo.d for 40 days because the Mujahideen had told then that the offensive would only last that long. After three months when the people faced a severe food shortage and a long, cold winter, the local commander summoned the elders and consulted with them about tWaSft to do with the women, children and old- people who were facing shortages of food and lack of enough warm clothes.
The. people's answer was simple and clear. The elders said to the. commander "Go and fight". We will be patient and stay with you. Our lives are not more precious than yours. God willing the enemy will be defeated".