AFGHANews Vol 6, No 7, April 1,1990, page ©
Herat Province
On thellth anniversary of the Herat uprising on March 15, Herat Mujahideen attacked enemy positions in and around Herat city. Following is the account of each action:
1.	Ten militiamen were killed in the Marghaz area. Two Mujahideen were also killed in the operation.
2.	One militiaman was killed and four were wounded in Qala-i-Turkman.
3.	Two trucks were set on fire when the Mujahideen fired rockets into the regime’s cement plant
4.	Three militiamen were killed and an unknown number were injured in Baba Haji area.
5.	An enemy armored car caught fire in Khawaj Kala area when the Mujahideen hit it with a rocket All the crewmen were killed.
6.	The Mujahideen killed three militiamen and destroyed a ZPU machine gun (14.6 mm) in Shorn Khana area.
7.	Thrift militiamen belonging to Sayed Ahmad were killed and two were injured when the Mujahideen fired rockets into their positions.
8.	An enemy outpost was destroyed near Malan Bridge when the Mujahideen attacked it with mortars.
In retaliation for the Mujahideen attacks, the enemy fired rockets into liberated areas, killing one civilian.
Kandahar Province
Eleven communist soldiers were killed on March 19 when their truck hit a land mine planted by the Mujahideen of Commander Naqibullah near Kandahar Mahbas. The Mujahideen
seized one motorcycle.
On March 13, the Mujahideen destroyed two enemy armored cars , set fire to an ammunition depot and killed 14 soldiers near Mahbas.
Twelve armed soldiers joined Commander Naqibullah.
Ghore Province
On March 14, the Mujahideen in Shahrak district attacked enemy posts in Jilga-i-Mazar and Kamar Buz areas capturing 40 soldiers and seizing 100 guns. Fighting in the area continues.
The posts were established sometime ago to protect Shahrak district.
On March 18, seven enemy soldiers were killed and 10 were captured when Jami'at Mujahideen attacked the enemy position near the provincial capital.
They seized 26 Kalashnikov rifles and one DSchK (12.6 mm) gun. One Mujahid was killed and four injured.
More than 50 soldiers also defected to the Mujahideen.
Kapisa Province
Commander Shaheen attacked the enemy position on Pahlawan Koh, near Bagram air base, on March 19, destroying three posts in 30 minutes. The Mujahideen seized the . following weapons:
One grenade launcher (AGS-17)
One ZPU (14.6 mm) machine gun
Ten Kalashnikov rifles
One rocket launcher
One hundred anti-personnel mines and large quantities of ammunition and foodstuffs.
The report gave no casualty figures. *
Shaheen is a well-known Jami'at commander in Kapisa.
Shoora trains 350 teachers
More than 350 teachers from three provinces were trained in winter courses organized by the education committee of the Supervisory Council.
This was the first time since the beginning of the Jehad that such a seminar was held inside Afghanistan. It took place in Panjshir at the office of the education committee of the Supervisory Council.
Teachers from Panjshir, Gulbahar, Kohband-i-Kohistan Istalif, Farzah, Ghorband, Bagram, Parwan Center and Jabulseraj took part.
Each class of 50 students attended ten days of training. The subjects including history, geography, mathematics psychology, office management, Pushto and Dari. The students were lodged and fed by the education committee of Central Zone of the Supervisory Council.
In addition to daily classes, the students took part in debates in which current issues were discussed. Interested Mujahideen also attended discussion classes.
The aim of the seminar was to enhance the level of knowledge of the young teachers and create a sense of community among them. The best students were awarded with certificates and gifts.
The organizers of the seminar were happy about the result of their work and found it useful for the teachers and the committee. -
Winter is the best time for teachers to refresh their knowledge. Schools are bn holiday during the three winter months in the cold parts of Afghanistan.
Hezb deal
| From page (8)
will you wait?
A. Moving from the defensive phase of the war to an offensive phase requires time for preparation. By the grace of God we have made speedy progress in creating the necessary military and political organizations, and in training the manpower needed to launch large-scale offensive operations. We are facing shortages of the heavy weapons and ammunition required to launch our attack.In the past limited amounts of military aid has been given us, and for a year all kinds of assistance to us have been cut God willing, once this need is filled our ma jor attacks will start.