AFGHANews Vol7, No 2, January 15,1991, page ©
News
From The Battlefields
Badghis Province Baghlan Province
The Mujahideen from Jami’at killed 16 enemy troops, including one militia commander, and wounded four soldiers in Bom Valley on December 30, Commander Ismail Khan reported.
The Mujahideen seized 80 Kalashnikov rifles, five P.K machine-guns, two ZPU machine-guns (14.6 mm) and 50 boxes of ammunition.
One junior Mujahideen commander and two Mujahideen were killed in the operation.
Panj shir Valley
Two young men lost their legs in two separate mine explosions in Panjshir one month ago.
Edi Mohammad, 30, lost his second leg in a mine explosion on a hill near his village in Rukha. He was admitted to hospital. He had lost his first leg in 1982 in a mine explosion.
Shoaib Mohammad, 17, lost his legs in a mine explosion in the same village.
Mines planted by the Soviets continue to claim the lives of the people in Panjshir. So far, no mine clearing team trained by the UN has gone to Panjshir to clear the valley of the deadly mines.
Kabul Province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at destroyed three power pylons, two posts, two tanks and one truck of the enemy and inflicted heavy casualties on the enemy soldiers in Soorobi District on January 4, Commander Anwar reported.
The Mujahideen also pounded regime positions in Soorobi District with heavy weapons, and fighting continued as this report was filed.
Soorobi is located on the Kabul-Jalalabad road. There are two hydroelectric power plants in Soorobi which provide part of the power for Kabul city. .
A regime attack to establish new security posts in Baghlan has been repulsed by the Mujahideen from Jami’at, commander Mullah Shams reported.
In fighting which began on December 23 and continued for six days, 35 enemy soldiers were killed, 50 were inured and six were captured.
The Kabul regime attacked the residential areas controlled by the Mujahideen with heavy weapons, killing 16 civilians and wounding 65. The Mujahideen lost six men and 10 Mujahideen were wounded. Twenty houses were destroyed by enemy artillery fire.
Kandahar Province
A bomb blast in Kandahar killed five people and injured six. Radio Kabul reported. The radio report blamed the Mujahideen for the explosion.
Snowstorm kills five Mujahideen
A snowstorm killed five Mujahideen and six others suffered frostbite in Toopkhana Pass on the Badakhshan border two weeks ago , a Jami'at source reported.
About two hundred Mujahideen from Badakhshan started their journey from Shah Salim, a village on Pak-Afghan border. Most of them had . crossed the pass when the storm started, forcing about 50 Mujahideen to return to Chitral. Those with frostbite were treated in hospital. All those killed or suffering from frostbite were from Badakhshan Province and affiliated to Jami'at
BBC put the figure of casualties at more than 200, causing worry for many Mujahideen families in Pakistan and Afghanistan.
Toopkhana Pass is usually safe and last year it was open until January 8.
The unusually severe cold and heavy snowfall has caused the deaths of 17 Afghan refugees, mainly children, in twd refugee camps in Baluchistan.
MIDIA, the AIG News Agency, reported 36 people travelling in a truck to Helmand froze to death.
UNHCR has taken additional relief measures to help refugees in Baluchistan to cope with severe cold weather. Sixty health centers have been reactivated and extra blankets are provided to Afghan refugees. Refugees in Baluchistan have reported that they are facing shortages of fuel.
Invasion condemned
From page (1)
Radio Moscow called the Soviet invasion of 1979 a mistake in which many Soviet citizens were killed. It also reported that in a Moscow church, a memorial service was held for those who lost their lives in Afghanistan. The Kabul regime kept silent about the invasion.
The Soviet’ Union invaded Afghanistan on December 27, 1979 to prevent the fall of the communist regime in Kabul. The leader of the communist regime, Amin, was replace by another puppet ruler, Babrak Karmal, who was brought from exile by the Soviet army. Afghans resisted the invasion and as a result of fighting between the Mujahideen and Soviet troops, more than a million people I6st their lives, five million Afghans became refugees* outside Afghanistan and 75% of the towns and villages were destroyed Soviets were forced to withdraw then-troops by February 15, 1988, but con tinued to help the Kabul regime. Soviet advisors are involved in combat activi ties against the Mujahideen and Soviet assistance to Kabul reaches up to 300 million dollars per month.
Regime to resume natural gas export
The Kabul regime will resume exports of natural gas to the Soviet Union in the coming months, Moscow Radio reported.
Exports of natural gas were stopped on security grounds in February 1989, immediately after Soviet troops left Afghanistan.
If the gas exports are resumed, it will help the Kabul regime to pay for some of the goods it buys from the Soviet Union.
A regime source said Soviet experts have started repair work on the pipeline.