AFGHANews Vol 8, Nos 21 & 22, November 15,1992, page Q
•I';1/ •'	:V.	..V	.	'
• >”x" -
• if
Editorial
Ball in Hikmatyar’s court
A ceasefire agreement was signed between the government and Hezb after one month of fighting in Kabul last August. The ceasefire was arranged with the mediation of the Mujahideen Council of Ningarhar.
The two sides had agreed on a 12-item agenda. According to the agreement, units of Divisions 53 and 80 would leave Kabul in return for the withdrawal of Hezb forces from around the capital. Opening of transit routes, the purge of communists from key positions in the government and of Khalqi officers and militias of the former regime from Hezb's ranks were part of the ceasefire agreement.
The government introduced changes in the structure of the defense ministry and appointed Mujahideen commanders in key positions of that ministry. Two units of the forces of General Dostum left Kabul under the eyes of representatives of the Peace Commission.
The time has come for Hezb to start the withdrawal of its forces from around Kabul, open the roads, purge communist elements from its ranks and cut its relations with milida forces from Helmand.
But Hikmatyar is not ready to abide by the ceasefire agreement, and keeps trying to find excuses not to implement its part of the agreement.
Hikmatyar has announced that the mission of Ningarhar peace commission has ended, and even accused it of breaking its promises. He also accused members of the commission of accepting bribes from the government.
The only valid point that Hikmatyar can raise is the delay in the withdrawal of forces of divisions 53 and 80. Due to technical problems this did not happened within the time frame stated in the agreement But taking into account the conditions in Afghanistan, such delays are unavoidable. Moreover, as long as they had not started their withdrawal, Hikmatyar was not expected to withdraw his forces. If the key issue for Hikmatyar and some other Mujahideen leaders was the withdrawal of the controversial forces from the north, it has begun. If Hezb implements its part of the agreement the crisis will be defused.
It is worth mentioning that Hikmatyar used to claim that the government did not want to withdraw the controversial fences and was not able to do so. The government disproved this claim by withdrawal of some units and showing readiness to withdraw the rest if the move was reciprocated by Hezb.
The key to peace is in hands of parties within the government In August Hikmatyar was at the brink of a disastrous defeat For reasons of their own, some of these parties did not want to see his downfall, at least for the time being. They pressured the government to accept the ceasefire.
If they prove faithful now and adopt a united policy in defending the position of the government since it has implemented its part of the ceasefire, the chances of more fighting will diminish. They should use their influence to pressure Hezb to fulfill its promises under the agreement
Roads should be opened
Winter's approach makes opening the transit routes more important than ever, so that the people can get food and especially fuel at modest prices. Closure of the roads not only raises prices, but also creates shortages of essential commodities in the country.
Unfortunately, even after the establishment of the Islamic government some groups, in contradiction jto all ethical and Islamic norms, continue to create problems along the highways. They collect tolls, prevent free travel and loot state goods. Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar is the main trouble-maker along the roads lead-
dir To page (8)
Velayati visits
The Iranian Foreign Minster Ali Akbar Velayati paid a one-day official visit to Kabul on October 9. He met with President Rabbani and Foreign Minister Sayyed Salman Gailani and addressed a press conference.
During his meeting with President Rabbani Dr. Velayati congratulated the Mujahideen for their victory over the communist regime and assured him of Iranian assistance to the people of Afghanistan.
This was the first visit of an Iranian minister to Kabul since the establishment of the Islamic government in Afghanistan.
Velayati held formal talks with his counterpart Sayyed Salman Gailani in which they discussed regional and international issues. The Iranian extended an invitation to Sayyed Salman Gailani to visit Teheran. Gailani accepted the invitation.
Dr. Velayati assured his Afghan counterpart of support for the membership of Afghanistan to the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO).
Iran, Turkey and Pakistan are the founders of ECO. The other members of ECO are Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan, Turkman istan and Kazakhstan. The communist regime in Kabul wanted to be accepted as a member of ECO but its entry to this organi zation was opposed by Pakistan and Iran.
Velayati attended a press conference in Kabul, in which he described his visit as very useful. He flew back to Teheran at the end of his one day visit
Capital will be safer: G. Safi
Abdur Rauf Safi, the commander of Kabul garrison, has said the security situation in Kabul has improved considerably.
Ten out of 12 districts have been cleared of irresponsible armed groups, and the police force is being formed
General Safi said the dispatch of unnecessary aimed forces from Kabul to their original bases is in progress.
He said the Mujahideen were getting used to their new role of policing the capital