AEGHAKe'ffs Vol.4, No 10, May 15,1988, Page 9
          Former king wants to be future president
      THE ex-king of Afghanistan has said that since a king is not suitable for Afghanistan he is willing to return as the president of Afghanistan.
      King Zahir who ruled Afghanistan for several decades have been living in exile in Italy since he was deposed by his nephew, the late President Daud in 1973.
      In a recent interview with the Republican newspaper of Italy, he said that a king was not suitable for Afghanistan. When asked if he was ready to serve as the head of the transitional government supervising elections, he said:"l am at the service of Afghanistan."
      The ex-king thinks that his role can be determined in a traditional assembly of elders (Loya Jerga). These types of assemblies brought the King s father to power and subsequently endorsed the policies of the ruling family. Mohammad Zahir believes that such a Jerga gives him the institution through which he can revive his role.
      The idea of return of the King gained strength when the Soviets showed their readiness to withdraw their forces under some conditions.
      Most of the Resistance ! political parties oppose the ■ return of Zahir Shah in the I political arena of Afghan | politics and consider him something ol the past.
      There are three traditional parties who support the idea of a return of the king but they are not sure about the role they envisage for the ex-king.
    In his interview Zahir Shah has said that he was trying to bring maximum unity among the Resistance group. This is surprising because he does not have an organization to do the job and so far no activities have come from him to confirm his claim.
    More than that, the issue of the role of the king is s dividing factor among the Mujahideen and refugees. Pro and anti-Zahir Shah demonstration in the past few months have shown this.
    Even if the Resistance groups were united under him there is no role for him to play. Zahir Shah could have come as the head of the government through a peace process. Geneva was signed and there was no agreement on an interim government.
    The Soviets have chosen their way. They want the puppet regime to he the backbone of the political system in Afghanistan and any political flexibility shown by the communists will be in the context of National Reconciliation' announced by the Kabul regime.
    The future system of government will be decided in the battlefield rather than on the conference table.
 There are no signs that in these circumstances the ex-king wilt be ready to shoulder any responsibility or even that he will be invited to play a role
    He was waiting for an opportunity which the Superpowers would have given him by asking him to become the new ruler of
 Afghanistan. There are no predictable signs that such a situation will prevail in the foreseeable future.
     The chances for the ex-king to play the role of the new president are very small. Najib. the president of the puppet regime, asked the King to come to the country and serve under him in what he called the coalition government. The Ex-king reportedly rejected the idea.
 Delhi closes Qandahar consulate
   INDIA has closed its consulate in Qandahar the second largest city of Afghanistan.
   The decision was taken after the closure of the Indian j consulate in the Eastern city ’ of Jalalabad a couple of weeks ago.
   India being afraid of security of Its mission closed [ its consulate at the same day when Najib was visiting Indian capital.
 gmaea. .ii j.miiu———
 Mujahideen kill Soviet reporter
   ACCORDING to the Soviet News Agency Tass.
 Alexander Sekretarve. 29. a photo-journalist from the 'l2vestia' newspaper was killed in the North of Afghanistan,
   The journalist was travelling with a Soviet convoy w’hen it was ambushed in the north of Afghanistan. Another photographer who was accompaning him was seriously wounded in action. ]