AFGHANews Vol 6, No 6, March 15,1990, page ©
' ■ ■ • ilf i- •.r |p| i
H [K? A \ $ L i i i V t \
i
■£*&coio&^

Editorial
must oppose both communist factions
Although Najib won the latest round in the power straggle within the PDPA, the coup weakened his grip on power and further narrowed the power base of the ruling party.
The coup of March 6 was the consquence of a chronic power struggle between the two factions of the PDPA—Khalq and Parcham. The Regime's inabil-tiy to win the war exceibated the internal conflict which evolved into a bloody encounted between the two factions leaving hundreds of death from both sides.
The incident showed that the claim by the Soviet Union that the ruling communist party was more united than ever was a propaganda slogan to mislead world public opnion.
Najib survived the coup but his problems are not yet over. The Khalq faction has a strong influence inside the puppet army. It will be impossible for Najib to purge the army and airforce in such a way as to change the balance of power in his favor.
Najib has been trying to cover the rift in the ruling party by saying that the coup attempt was the work of a few indviduals. But this argument is not convincing because at least five poliburo members were involved in the attemp.
An interesting develpment in connection with the coup was Hezb Island's (Hikmatyar) open support of the bid by the Khalqis to overthrow Najib. Hezb asked his Mujahideen to support General Tani, the coup leader.
Hezb has been talking about the coup for some time, especially after the frontal attack to capture Jalalabad failed.
Hikmatyar's political support for Tani raises many questions about the way things would have developed if the coup had. succeeded and possible future developments now that the coup has failed.
If the coup had been successful, Khalqi officers would have not handed over power to Hezb to allow it to form 'one hundred percent purely Islamic government'. The only solution would have been the formation of a coalition government by the Khalqis and Hezb. If such a thing had happened, the National Reconciliation announced by the regime would have been applied in a different form and the Khalq faction would have claimed the honor of saving Afghanistan from the tyranny of Najib.
This would have given the Khalq party recognition and status and would have made it part of the future political system. This development might have been supported by Moscow because it would have guaranteed the saftety of communist individuals and the survival of the communist system, perhaps under a different name.
Now that the coup has failed other developments are likely to take place. Khalqis may continue to keep thjfir alliance with Hezb and cooperate with it in fighting against Najib. Defection of pro-Khalqis might strenghten Hezb’s position in some parts of Afghanistan, but because of the Khalqis' notorious past it would be difficult for the people to make coalitions between the hardliners of the two opposing camps. The problem of the opposition of the rest of the Mujahideen parties to the presence of Khalqis in the Mujahideen side will always be a disadventage to them.
Jami'at support the AIG stand of not supporting any faction erf the PDPA and consider the political support extended by one of the Mujahideen groups to the Khalq faction a fatal mistake.
It is in the best interests of the Mujahideen to exploit the differences between the two factions to liberate more areas..
Our nation is fully aware of the atrocities committed by both factions of the communists. Both factions have been tested once and there is no need to test them again.
An Islamic government, and a government of the people’s choice does not come through cooperation with communists. If Hezb leaves the AIG because of differences on the election issue, how could it justify its cooperation with the people who have earned their fame and name in killing the Mujahideen and in the service of the Soviets?
It is diffecult to justify this change of direction on ideological grounds. Now the people outside Hezb pose the question about the Hezb Alliance with die Khalqis. Very soon the Hezb leadership will be questioned by its ordinary members because they joined with this party to fight aginst communists.
From page (6)
high-jacking.
The arrested high-jacker's weapons were not found by the authorities due to their imaginative concealment. These weapons were a potential risk for them, for if they were found to have concealed weapons, it would firmly implicate them in the plot It became imperative for them to rid themselves of the weapons. Habbeebullah and his male co-high-jacker after a period of tipie in captivity gave their guns to a prisoner who was about to be released to take it out of the prison. Unfortunately, Habbeebullah's trustee betrayed him to the authorities, which resulted in firm evidence convicting the three captives of planning a high-jacking. Each was then given a 15 year jail term. The female high jacker was fortunate to be re leased very early because her family had high connections with the Communist government.
Habbeebullah was to remain m prison for five and a half years until a prisoner exchange was organized During Habbeebullah's time in prison he was tortured to such a degree that he presently suffers from mental disorders which make it difficult for him to con centrate upon a task for a long period of time. His fellow high-jacker died in jail after developing kidney problems brought on by his captivity.
In 1985, Mujahideen commanders and local elders holding two Russian soldiers captive arranged a prisoner exchange where the two Russians would be exchanged for five Mujahideen captives, among them Habbeebullah. This exchanged proceeded anc Habbeebullah was released from captivity and returned to Peshawar.
The family of Farooque has suffered tremendous losses because of the continuing war in Afghanistan