-----------  APGHANe-ws	Vol4, So 13- July 1,1968, Pago? |
------------ ------------— ----------—i
Schools open in Pan) shir as garrisons close
THE authorities in Panjshir feel the need for intensive education activities after the liberation of the valley. To do this they need support.
A representative of Panjshir valiey has come to seek help to expand ; educational activities in the valley after its liberation,
Mir Hussain who arrived Peshawar through the newly-opened Northern route says that he has been sent by the Educational Committee of the valley to take books, stationary, audio-visual aides and printing materials to the valley to enable expansion of the work.
Mir Hussain says that educational activities Inside the valley have been intensified since fast summer, So far nine schools have been opened. According to him, the students do not have enough text books.
These books have been printed on a duplicating machine from the samples printed by the Mujahideen in Pakistan.
Concerning educational ' activities among the Mujahideen, Mir Hussain said that they show a keen interest in learning and last year 90% of all the Mujahideen were busy in different educational activities, Those Mujahideen who could not read and write have started to learn reading and writing.
in addition to reading and writing the Mujahideen also show keen interest in memorising the Holy Quran and learning about religious subjects.
The Education Committee in Panishir which is based in Peryfui also publishes a I paper, called Neda-i-Jehad "The call for Jehad." This
paper has been published since i960 but some times the war has disrupted its publication.
This fortnightly paper is published in Persian and is distributed inside the valley and the neighboring areas.
Due to shortages of paper and other printing materials it is limited to 215 copies, each copy Is composed of three or four pages.
Mir Husain says that the Education Committee in the valley has ambitious programs to expand its activities by establishing new schools and improving the conditions of present schools. To do this job, books and stationary are needed. School buildings must be built and teachers should be supported. Teachers who Uve in Pakistan will be encouraged to return to the valley and help promotion of the program,
The Committee has decided to open a religious boarding school in the valley. It is also planned to intensify literacy program and improve the quality of the paper it publishes.
The Committee is fully aware of the positive effect of audio-visual aid for the students. It hopes to get tape-recorders and video-players to Increase the general understanding of the public and students in the valley.
When the Council of the Commanders of Paajsfair was convened in late 1987, Commander Masood criticised the local organization for lack of progress in the education field, In that . meeting it was derided to intensify activities for opening more schools and encouraging the Mujahideen to
learn reading and writing.
This decision gave a new spirit to the educational activities in the valley.
It should be mentioned here that educational activities in the valley have been continuing parallel to military activities, in 1980 there were tens of schools all ever the valley and one of these schools in Rukha had about i ,000 students.
; Heavy aerial bombardments and continuous offensives displaced a large portion of the population of the valley and disrupted schooling. But the idea of opening schools, having libraries and publishing papers have always been alive and wherever it was possible the job has been re-started.
Now that the valiey Is liberated, resumption of large -scale educational activities has become possible. If what the Committee needs is provided the progress in the field of education will be eye-catching.
Commander Masood has invited a fact-finding delegation of relief organizations to the Panjshir valley after its liberation.
The team will see the valley which is totally devastated and discuss ways of helping the people to resume their normal life.
Most of the villages in the | valley are totally destroyed. Irrigation channels need to be repaired. Cattle have to be brought into the valley to resume farming. People should be helped in build houses.
The response of the relief organizations have been positive towards the Invitation and they are discussing it.