AFGHANews Vol 7, No 17, September 1,1991, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Cmdr. Arshad Farid
milt
V m'lk Wlti
Abdul Wahab, I mown as Arshad ''arid, is one of the three influential j commanders of i Jami'at' Islami in Samangan	I
*rovince. He leads I around 2,000 armed! Mujahideen. He has been working close-
y with the Supervisory 1 Council -headed by Ahmad Shah Masood.
Samangan is a strategically important province through which die Salang highway passes. This makes Samangan the target of military and subversive activities of the regime.
In 1980, Arshad Farid returned to Samangan, after a two-year stay in Peshawar, bringing with him 18 Kalashnikov rifles and one RPG-7 rocket launcher. The Mujahideen of Jami'at under the command of Mawlawi Zahir had established their base in Chaghat Mountain. He was appointed the head of the financial committee of the Mujahideen.
After a while, the Mujahideen in Samangan development differences among themselves. Jami'at fell prey to personnel difference between its commanders. Arshad Farid encouraged Zabihullah of Mazar to intervene and solve their differences. Zabihullah tried but failed to unite Jami'at commandos in Samangan.
In 1983 Arshad wait to Panjshir to meet Ahmad Shah Masood. Commander Zabihullah also had gone to the valley to meet Masood. Farid attended a military training class, especially organized for Commander Zabihullah and his men. Masood, Zabihullah and Farid discussed the situation in Samangan and decided that Zabihullah and Farid should coordinate their activities in bringing unity among die Mujahideen. The sudden death of Commander Zabihullah was a blow to the efforts aimed at uniting the Mujahideen.
Farid decided to keep away from the differences among the Mujahideen and to concentrate on fighting against the regime and Soviets. The ordinary people started to admire him for this decision. The Mujahideen from other parties started to cooperate with him in fighting against the Soviets. He had about 200 armed Mujahideen at that time.
Later, he tried to bring
Commander Mawlawi Zahir and Masood closer together. Mawlawi Zahir met with Masood in Takhar and they decided that	Arshad	Farid,
Commander Saifullah and	Mawlawi	Zahir
would work together in Samangan.
Farid attended the
the Supervisory Farkhar, Takhar
fifth . meeting of Council, held in Province.
He was in the last year of Abu Hanifa Madrasa when the communist coup of 1978 took place. He came un-da increasing pressure from the authorities of school to support the government. He migrated to Peshawar one month after the coup.
He stayed in Peshawar for two years before returning to Samangan. During his stay in Pakistan, he attended a military class, taught by a South African Muslim, Mohammad Haroon. Haroon had undergone military training in East Germany as a member of ANC. He later converted to Islam and left his country to avoid revenge by ANC. He contacted Jami'at Islami and offered his services for Jehad. About 50 young Mujahideen, including Commander Masood, became his students. He taught them basic military tactics and the essence of urban warfare. Arshad describes these classes as very useful.
Farid met with Commander Zabihullah of Mazar and Commander Masood of Panjshir in Peshawar and established friendly ties with them.
Arshad had joined the Islamic movement in the second year of Abu Hanifa school in Kabul. He became the head of the resistance cell in his class before the communist of coup April.
He had started his primary education in the mosque of his village and then attended Dalkhaky school in Harzrart-i-Sultan. He was a hard working student who got excellent grades.
Farid was bom 37 years ago in an Dari speaking Arab family in Kokjer village, Hazrat-i-Sultan sub-DistricL His father, Abdul Wahid, was a fanner who worked on his own land. Like other people they also kept a flock of sheep and spent most part of the year in the desert and mountain tendering their sheep. Such a semi-nomadic way of life has trained the people of Samangan as good fighters.
He is married.
m|PrOf. Burhanuddin Rabbani. act-[ing Foreign Minister A1G and the leader of Jami'at Islami, met with Crown Prince Abdullah on August 18 ■Rleddah. Both sides discussed dif-H|nt aspects of Afghan issues and] [Afghan refugees problems. Saudi Crown prince promised the support I of the Kingdom for the Afghan [Mujahideen,
Dr. MuqM R^^tzai was seriously wounded by an unknown gunman in Peshawar on August 13. He worked for a US-funded education program that opened schools and provided textbooks frrsdwols in the
Pjftahmanzai, 45, is the .deputy | jpgjl^tebf the local bmch of the Bmv«stty'' of Nebraska a^Omalml fldticatkjn Sector Support Projects**
••• |
At least 30 people were killed by
rockets near the Defence Ministry ini Kabul on-August 1$.	I
BBMosl of the casualties occurred] I at a bus stop about one kilometer I from the Defence	pfl
Ihose killed were
Ituming from work. Tl^]||||||pni<3 [has . blamed fhe MuiMiiiilliil-^&j [attack.
I	•••	1
Najibullah regime has banned Azadi. 3 fortnightly paper published!
I in Kabul, and has imprisoned its editor for publishing a Hikmatyar's statement which asked the array to raise against the regime. Ghulam Sakhi fehairat, die editor of Azadi, is a I member of Khalq faction. He had ear-1 tier published a letter from Dastagir Panjshiri. a communist leader now; serving jail terms n ci es of in| volvement in Tanai coup, and a statement by Keshtmand, the framer Prime Minister of the regime, anl
Miffiyat,& paper ■■■■ha^cm
I in |
the
MHHI Union in
Badakhshan Province.
Eshkahsim,
news by a Western journalist, he refined k as a propaganda ploy of the Mqfafotdoi^ '	r-