HFGHRH H£US VOL, III, HU.23, 1/t2/t9e?,PfiGF 3
 Garrison There were also some units belonging to KHAD and Sarandowy (police), in addition to units from the puppet army, stationed there.
 It should bo added that about 200 Mujahideen from Balkh and Jawzjan provinces had participated in the operation This is the fifth Garrison which has bean captured by the Mujahideen from jamiat in the North in the past year
 Mujahideen in this area have indirect cooperation with the Mujahideen under the control of the Supervisory Council of the North
 8/11/1^37. Mujahideen from Jamiat led by Mohammad Amin Pahlawan conducted a well-planned offensive against the enemy's C-as Refinery System in Shuburghan, the provincial capital of Jawzjan. Using heavy artillery, th6 Mujahideen destroyed the system which latter caught fir e and burnt the adjacent residences of Russian families. A large number of them died as a result More than 15 armoured vehicles and oil-tankers parked on the spot were set on fire
                                             NAM6RAHAR PROVINCE
 11 /11 /1987 A number of Mujahideen units jointly launched an operation against some enemy posts in Gooshta and Aikhy areas By using U)7mm ground-to-ground rockets and other heavy weapons, Mujahideen were able to destroy 4 DRA posts in 8 hours of
 severe fighting. '
 13/11/1987: An armoured tank was also set on fire in Kama District Five militias were killed and a 76mm Canon was destroyed in a fighting in which the militias were attempting to proven! the Mujahideen from blocking a DRA supply route in the area The report does not give any number for the casualties of the Mujahideen
 7/11/1987; One DShk , one AK-47 and a military vehicle were captured when Mujahideen attacked the gist DRA Battalion and its adjacent posts in Gnani Khil area of Achin district. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties
 1/11/1987: Mujahideen under the command of Habiburahman attacked enemy posts surrounding Achin district As a result, the Mujahideen were able to destroy some government establishments in addition to killing or wounding 13 soldiers aad militias in the posts. Three Mujahideen were injured in the operation.
                                             LAGHMAN PROVINCE
 9/11/1987 Mujahideen launched an operation against four DRA posts situated in Surkhakan district. Two of the posts were destroyed and 4 military vehicles set on fire.
 An unidentified number of Communists were killed in the operation. The report does not mention the number of casualties on the side of the Resistance
                                              PAKT1A PROVINCE
 7/11/1987: Twenty five enemy soldiers were killed and 3 armoured vehicles were destroyed during an attack conducted by the Mujahideen under the command of Amir Khan in Mirzaka area t half-way between Gardez and Jaji)
 A number of residential places of the Communists and other DRA officials were damaged during the shelling
 A Mujahid lost his leg in a mine explosion planted by the enemy.