AFGHANews Vol7, No 12, June 15,1991, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Mawlawi Ghulam Rabbani
Mawlawi	Ghulam
Rabbani, 47, was chosen to be the Mujahideen's governor of Kunar after the province's liberation from Soviet occupation in 1989. When Soviet troops left Kunar, ( the seven Mujahideen parties belonging to the AIG formed a 29-member provincial council. The council was given the job of electing a governor for the province and supervising the work of the Mujahideen administration.
Mawlawi Ghulam Rabbani was elected by 22 votes against seven. Being a religious scholar, one of the early Mujahideen, and having good contacts with all parties made him an acceptable leader. . ,
He served as the governor of Kunar for more than one year. During his rule, the Mujahideen of Kunar liberated Noorgul, Kama and Khaiwa districts. Around 116 Mujahideen of Kunar were killed and 170 sustained injuries.
Mawlawi Ghulam Rabbani was replaced by Mawlawi Khalis, who at the time served as the Interior Minister of AIG. This decision created problems in Kunar. The new AIG-appointed governor, Mohammad Ali, was opposed by some parties. Elections were held to solve the problem, but these only complicated the situation further.
The recent clashes between the supporters of Mawlawi Jamilur Rahman, locally known as Wahabis, and Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar clearly demonstrates the need for moderate people like Ghulam Rabbani to deal with die complicated situation in Kunar. Mawlawi; Ghulam Rabbani blames Jamilur Rahman for many of the present problems and describes him as an extremist. He is also critical of Mawlawi Khalis for his unnecessary intervention in Kunar, which sparked the current crises.
Ghulam Rabbani became involved in politics during the time of the former king, and during the rule of President Daud, he actively supported the Islamic movement. He gave shelter and protection to the members of the Islamic movement in 1975 who had launched armed attacks against the communist elements within the Daud regime in Kunar, Panjshir and Laghman. He had established contacts with the Islamic movement in Kabul University during the rule of the former king, and visited
• Mawlawi Ghulam Rabbani
Kabul to meet with leading members of the Islamic Movement. During one of his visits to Kabul, he talked to the stu-dentss of the university and two boarding high schools, and met with detained members of the movement in Deh Mazang Prison. His first meeting with Hikmatyar took place in jail.
Ghulam Rabbani began his studies in his native village. After two years of study in Kunar, he went to Pakistan and studied in different Madrasas in N.WJP. and Punjab provinces.
During his stay in Pakistan, he got in touch with Jamaat Islami of Pakistan and started reading books written by Mawlana Mawdudi, the Jamaat founder and leader. He became one of the admirers of the late Mawdudi, whom he met three or four times.
After graduation, he returned to Kunar and started to teach in Narat; a village in Shegal Valley. He promoted political awareness among his students and warned them of the dangers posed by the communists. Meanwhile, the Panjpeeri sect (whose members were locally known as Wahabis), was gaining influence in Kunar. Mawlawi Jamilur Rahman was one of the early activists of this movement
Ghulam Rabbani encouraged Jamilur Rahman to adopt a lenient policy towards the dominating non-Wahabi population because the main danger to Islam was coming from the communists.
The Islamic Movement was divided after the 1975 uprising against the Daud government. Two groups were formed, one led by Hikmatyar and the other by Prof. Rabbani. Mawlawi Rabbani, who had contact with both sides, tried to restore the unity of the Movement He succeeded in unifying the two groups under Qazi Amin Weqad. This union, however, proved a short-lived arrangement
Mawlawi Rabbani was in Peshawar when the communist coup of 1978 took place. He was informed of the coup by Ahmad Shah Masood, who lived at that time in Peshawar. He wanted to visit the Holy Places at Mecca before going back to Kunar. He was in Karachi when heard that Narat the village in which he had taught for several years, had been attacked by communist forces. The village was burned and most of his students fled to Dara-i-Paich.
Cancelling his journey, he returned to Peshawar. He was advised not to go to Kunar because of the risks involved. The communists' oppressive rule had forced many Ulama to shave their beards to avoid arrest while trying to escape from Afghanistan. He returned to Kunar despite the danger.
"If I had not gone," Mawlawi Babbani said, "the resistance (there) would have been crushed."
Three months after his arrival in the Paich Valley, the Mujahideen liberated the district and seized some weapons, both light and heavy. He gave some of the captured weapons to the Mujahideen in other parts of Afghanistan. Commando' Masood, for example, was given two rocket launchers, one DShK anti-aircraft cannon and one mortar. This was a great help at that time because the Mujahideen had few weapons.
Mawlawi Rabbani maintained his good relations with all Mujahideen parties, but he .developed close contacts with Prof. Rabbani, whom he admired a lot. "He is a broad-mined scholar who treats all sections of the Afghan society equally," Mawlawi Rabbani said.
Mawlawi Rabbani is worried about the current^ situation in Kunar. He considers himself a neutral figure who can bring about unity among the Mujahideen.
Ghulam Rabbani is from Aranas village in the Paich Valley; he is a Nooristani. His father, Khan Malik, earned his Irving by raising goats. His native language is Nooristani. He also speaks Pushtu, Persian, Arabic and Urdu. When not busy with Jehad, he teaches his students the Holy Quran and the Hadith, the traditions of the Prophet of Islam (peeace be upon him).
He is married and has four sons and two daughters. One of his sons is a student at a religious school in Pakistan, and another is busy memorizing the Holy Quran.