 AFGHAN
 •NEWS
-5 ^ .... 3-1-1986
             Jamfat i-fstaml Afghanistan Post Box No 264, GPO Peaba*ar-Pakistan
                                     F30L AFGHAHS _TO INDIANS
      We Afghans are engaged in a war which has been imposed, on us, We did not. like the docaawnist coup of 1978 because it intxo<&iced an alien way of life to us. It posed a threat to our religion, culture and independence, First -we resisted peacefully but the Cosarunist used force and •we we re compelled to take arms and fight back. These were internal pro-alems like those in your country.
      In 1979 the -led Army entered Afghanistan. Cur war for liberation Started. We expected all the peace-loving people of the world to support us because all the accepted international laws concerning mutvft* 1
 jSk                          #
  _ respect, non-iatorfor^nce in the arfaxrs of other countries and the jasftfc '■ of the people to determine their type of government were violated by a super power (the so-called natural allies of the.third world, countries).
      Since we have common historic relations with India, and Seikhs and Hindus minorities were the previliged business class in Afghanistan,
   We expected the Indian people and government (without a moment of hes-. itation) to have rejected the invasion and supported the people of Afghanistan.^ To India who had, been outspoken against American involvement in •Vietnam, it was a testing ground to show their independent policy and.their true non-aligned status.
     i But. we' are sorry that the position the Indian government took is next what the people of Afghanistan expected. They even abstained to vote in favour of those resolutions which asked for the withdrawal of foriegn troops from Afghanistan, Worse than what we have information that Ind-ian diplomats in Babul and even their military advisors are becoming more involved in the war against the people of Afghanistan. Delhi has become the spring board of Khad agents to the West and the centre of KGB disinformation. I low another conspiracy is talcing shape and that is sending so-called Indian muslin delegation to Kabul to show that the puppet regime is respecting Islamic values. Soviet and puppet regime can not res-' pact- Islam but they respect the power of the Kujahideen guns. They do not respect our mosques not your mosques and tempels.