AFGHAN l-EMS VOL.Ill, HO.5, 1/3/ 19B7 PAGE 6
 We have ourselves often sought the aid and assistance of international organisations -labour unions and others, and could therefore put our experience at the disposal of the Afghan people. A cooperation with our East-European neighbours could find its practical expression in a common support of their struggle- within our countries themselves this would have to be mainly moral and symbolic, whereas our various diasporas could act on a more down-to-earth level.
 Poles are not indifferent to the plight of Afghanistan symbolic actions expressing our solidarity and numerous publications in the underground press are ample proof of this.
 . . This fact has made it possible for a Pole to express his view of the situation in Afghanistan in discussions with political representatives of the West The cooperation between Poles and Afghans has now been initiated - its continuation is an essential task for Polish political thought and action.
                                         FROM THE DIARY OF JEHAD
 Panjshir valley, December 1980.
 Soviets launched an offensive Most of the people left the villages and sought refuge to the side-valleys. Some old peopfe who were unable to move remained in their houses They were taken as prisoners,
 They were brought to the helipad to be airlifted to the notorious Pul-Charkhi Jail. While they were waiting for the plane. Soviet Soldiers brought a young man named Aziz who was insane. A DChK fired by the Mujahideen killed one soldier. This made a Soviet officer mad and he started to kick Aziz to death in front of the prisoners. Others were afraid of similar treatment but the Soviet officer was satisfied with one death at that time
 The bunch of old people were flown to Pul-Charkhi jail and were interrogated by the Soviet officers. The prisoners who were aged and sick remained in jail for several months
 The Irony about Aziz's death is that his father, brother and cousins are members of the puppet party and even his brother has married a Soviet girl
 This is a lesson for all those who want to make friendship with the Soviets.
                                CIVIL WAR OR THE WAR FOR LIBERATION
 Soviets invaded Afghanistan in 1979, and since then war between the Soviets and the people of Afghanistan has continued
 The presence of a puppet regime, from behind which Soviets act, has confused some journalist to call the war in Afghanistan a civil war the war between the people of Afghanistan. This is a great mistake which goes against the obvious facts ignoring the real situation in that country. Projecting such a view serves the colonial designs of the Soviets and hurts the cause of Afghans who fight for the defense of their homeland.
 The presence of the puppet regime should not be confusing In all the occupied countries the invading forces have tried to form an administration from a bunch of local traitors to control the occupied land more effectively Everywhere in the occupied countries a few thousand people can be found who sell their honor and dignity in return for material benefit. History is full such examples. In parts of Europe occupied by Hiller forces there were people who served the invading forces instead of joining their people against them. The bad names of such regimes have become an example Most of the people are familiar with the word of "quisling regime" which takes its root from the name of a traitor who served the invaders against his people.