AFGHANews Vo! 8, No 12,

1992, page
Save Afghanistan's honor!
I was sitting in my new office in Kabul when two people entered the room: a western woman and an Afghan working for a UN organization.
The lady told me that she was leaving Afghanistan and had come to pay a farewell visit.
She said while she was keen to work for the reconstruction of Afghanistan, the situation had forced her to leave Kabul. "Back at home," she added, "I will think about my future plans."
She did not say what was forcing her to leave the job that she liked so much. But I had already learned that a group of armed men had entered her house one night, tied her up, and demanded cash and jewelry at gun point.
They tormented her for six long hours. Finally the thieves left, taking whal they could carry, and left her shaken physically and mentally.
The ordeal had deeply demoralizing her for two reasons: first, her life had been threatened, and second, she did not expect such treatment from the people for whose well-being she had worked for more than a decade.
She flew back to Islamabad on a UN plane. AfLcr a medical check up, she flew back lo her country.
This lady has been involved in support of Jehad since 1980. Her husband, a scholar and expert on Afghanistan, has rendered great service to the -people of Afghanistan by informing the world of their struggle. She had been on medical and other humanitarian missions lo Herat, Mazar, Badakhshan and other parts of Lhc country before joining the UN to help the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
The fall of the communist regime and formation of the Islamic government delighted her because she thought that conditions for reconstruction and humanitarian work would improve under the new government. But a group of bandits whose only concern was to get money through criminal means shattered her dreams.
Or was that their only concern? Those men may have intended lo defame the Mujahideen and their young Islamic government.
' I was deeply embarrassed and apologized because I was aware of her services to the Afghan people and the expectations she had of the Mujahideen. I was disappointed that the Islamic government had failed to provide security for her.
That incident resembled many others in Kabul since the formation of the Islamic government. Many Afghans and foreigners have been robbed of their property; some have even been murdered, property; some have even been murdered.
Violence and armed robbery must be a source of worry to the new leaders in Kabul. These incidents not only undermine the authority of the government but harm our national pride and damage the image of Jehad.
The Mujahideen’s failure to put an end to such acts has several reasons:
•	The presence of a great many armed groups, belonging to different parties, in every quarter of the city. Many houses, and indeed whole streets, have been turned into quasi-military posts.
•	The absence of a regular army and police force to control the situation through a single command.
•	The presence of the former regime’s agents among the Mujahideen.
•	Ineffective control of some parties over their armed Mujahideen.
Despite paying lip service to the need to form a combined army and police
force to deal with the security issues in Kabul, the parties have not acted urgently to deal with the security issue. Political motives may lie behind such delays. But the deterioration of law and order will help only criminals — and the govern-
G#- To page (5)
Rabbani visits Herat, Mazar
Prof. Rabbani, president of the Leadership Council and the leader of Jami'at Islami, returned to Kabul on May 26 after a five-day visit to Herat, Mazar, Jawzjan, Faryab and Baghlan.
Prof. Rabbani discussed Lhc political, military and economic situation of Herat with Ismail Khan, the governor and commander of that province. In Mazar, he addressed public meetings and exchanged views with some Mujahideen commanders. He also met with General Dostum and General Sayycd Mansoor Nadcri.
Maulavi Alam, the chief administrator of Jami'at in Mazar, Abdul Hay Haqjo, the general commander of Jami’at in Baghlan, and some prominent members of Jami'at accompanied him on the journey.
This was Rabbani's first trip outside Kabul since the victory of the Islamic revolution. On his return, he was welcomed at the Kabul airport by Ahmad Shah Masood, the defence minister, and Prof. Tawana, the deputy minister of higher education.
Islamic Movement
From page (7)
brother, Mohammad Zahir, were arrested. Among those only Prof. Sayyaf was released; the rest were killed. The remaining leaders such as Prof. Rabbani, Hikmatyar, Yasir, Bilal and Sayycd Lala migrated to Pakistan.
Some friends say that Prof. Niazi and Eng. Habibur Rahman were arrested and then killed by the Daud regime due /to an abortive coup engineered by Hikmatyar, without consultation of other leaders. Prof, consultation of other leaders. Prof. Rabbani managed- to avoid arrest by leaving the country. Mawlawi Habibur Rahman was arrested and killed during the uprising in Laghman in the summer of 1975. The dean of the university, Nimatullah Pazhwak, wanted to expel me from my job, but his transfer to another post postponed the decision .
Twenty-three days after the communist coup, I reached Pakistan and joined my friends in Jami'at Islami. Unfortunately there was a split in the party and Hezb had been formed under the leadership of Hikmatyar. There have been divisions among the brothers since 1977.