AFGHANews Vol 6, No 1, January 1,1990, page©
Iran abandons plan to shift refugees to camps
The Foreign Committee of the Iranian Parliament has rejected the bill to resettle the two million Afghan refugees living in Iran in special refugee camp.s. A group of Parliamentarians had presented the bill to the house. This bill requested that refugees register with the authorities of the Islamic Republic within three months so that their transfer to special refugee camps could be arranged. Those who tabled the bill argued that the step was necessary to curb drug trafficking and other illegal activities related to law and order.
The bill provoked a strong reaction from the Mujahideen parties and the refugee community in Iran. The head of Harakat Islami office in Tehran told the BBC that the refugees were against the decision of sending them to special camps and that such action will create tremendous problems for the refugees. He further said that the plan to resettle the refugees will create ill-feeling between Afghans and Iranians which is against the interest of both sides.
Khair Khwah, the head of Jami'at office in Tehran criticized the plan. He
Communists ruin the resort town
An Iranian journalist who has just returned from a trip around Kabul says that Kabul is surrounded by the Mujahideen from all directions.
Talking to the BBC, he said that Paghman, a town 15 kilometers west of Kabul was controlled by the Mujahideen.
When asked who controlled Paghman Bazaar, he said that there was no bazaar in Paghman. Everything there is destroyed.
The Iranian journalist who travelled to Paghman with the Mujahideen from Jami'at was a witness to oversee the exchange of prisoners between the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime through the mediation of local elders.
He said the people faced shortages of food and other commodities. He described Mullah Ezat, Jami'at commander in Paghman, a clever person who has built schools for the children, though "When the issue is finding lunch an< dinner, school loses its importance in the daily life", the journalist added.
said the resettlement program would disturb the normal life of the refugees and create problems for the education of their children.
The two leaders jointly warned that if the plan was implemented, a lot of refugees would prefer to leave ban.
Connecting the resettlement plan with the issue of law and order annoys the refugees who have escaped the tyranny of communism. Mujahideen leaders have said that they are in favor of strict measures against a few law breakers, but the two million refugees who have escaped their homes to protect their religion must not suffer because of a few wrong doers.
Afghan refugees started to enter Iran when the Iran-Iraq war had just begun. Afghans provided a good source of cheap labor. Most of the Afghan refugees live in the cities and supported themselves by working in a variety of different fields including in building construction, in the brick kilns and in factories.
In the past there were a few refugee camps in ban but Afghans did not like to live there because of movement restrictions.
The result of moving the refugees into camps will make them dependent on charity which is not a good way of living.
Abdullah Noori, the interior minister of the Islamic Republic in a meeting with the Mujahideen leaders based in Iran said that those who misused the hospitality of the banian government and indulged in illegal activities would be dealt with strictly. In the same meeting he reiterated the support of his government for the Afghan cause.
I—^
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
It's the same donkey, but with a new saddle.
Meaning: Clothes do no make a man.
Usage: Said of someone who has recently gained a high position unworthily.

Reading Scripture in front of a donkey.
Meaning: Casing your pearls before swine.
^ a-s L; b '•j* J	o
Without a green switch the ox and the donkey won't obey.
Meaning: "Spare the rod and spoil the child".
Narrated Malik
"S'"
" Who believes in Allah and the Last Day should talk about what is good or keep quiet.
(ie.
and sh	uttering.)