                                           | M THE NAME OF ALMICHTT ALLAH |
AFGHANnews
           A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM I'AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN
               POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                  VOL. IILN0.10, 15/5/1987.
                            EDUCATION IN EMBATTLED AFGHANISTAN
                                                                                          (‘ACKU?
 "Seeking knowledge is obligatory to every Muslim.         V          . J
 “Seek knowledge even (if it Is as far as) In China."          V
 Thus commanded the Prophet of Islam. The Muslims followed the commands of their Prophet and were able to establish a glorious civilization in less than a hundred years. Prophet Muhammad's emphasis on seeding Knowledge stemmed from the teachings of the Holy Quran. From the Quranic point of view, education is so important that God Almighty swears “By the Pen and by the (record) which (menhrrite" (The Quran, 6$:1). The first verses of the Quran which were revealed to Muhammad (P.B.U.H.) stated:
 Proclaim; And thy lord Is Most Bountiful He who taught (the use of) the pen,
 Taught man that which he knew not. (96: 3-9)
 Islam's emphasis on education, liie its other commandments, are for the improvement of human life in this world as well as in the Hereafter. Afghan Mujahideen have realized this fact. They know that through education they will become better and more fruitful members of human society They know that through education they can increase their military capabilities and become better freedom fighters. They know that they need education in order to be able to preserve their extremely rich cultural heritage, which is in danger from Sovietization Thus, while fighting a fierce battle against an atrocious and savage enemy, the Mujahideen have not neglected the field of education-
 When the Russian agents came to power in Afghanistan — and especially after the Russian invasion — education in that country experienced a severe blow. The governmental schools in the cities were turned into propaganda centers for communism and friendship with Russia, When the courageous students (especially the girls) objected to this and demonstrated against the Russian invasion, they were mercilessly gunned down by tanks and helicopters. The criminals did not hesitate even to poison the water storages of their schools. Moreover, many students were expelled from schools or put in prisons, The military conscription laws were designed in such a way that the students were forced to either join the puppet party (PDPA) or to run away. Thousands of children were taken to Russia for indoctrination
 In the country-side, the governmental schools were simply closed down. Their buildings were turned into military barracks.
 The Madrasa system (non-governmental religious schools) which had provided education to Afghan children for centuries — long, long before governmental schools came into existence — also suffered heavily. Many mosques, where classes were held, were bombed and destroyed. The Maulawis (religious scholars) who used to teach in the Madrasas joined the ranks of Mujahideen and became preoccupied with military activities. Because of Russian and their puppet government's barbarism, millions of children migrated to Pakistan'and Iran where they lived in camps in which the basic necessities of life were hardly available. Those who remained inside the country lived in constant insecurity without any classrooms and teachers.