AFGHAN HEUS VOL.Ill, NO.M.7, !/«/ 1967 PAGE 5
and one TT pistol.The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
                                                  KABUL PROVINCE
16/3/1987. Mujahideen from the Jegdalek front of Jamiat attacked a Soviet post in Tangi Abreshum on the Kabul-Jalalabad Highway For two days traffic came to a stand still. One tank was destroyed and the Soviet post eras hit with heavy weapons as a result of which 6 Soviet soldiers were killed. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
March 9. 1987. The Russians and MIA launched air and ground offensive on Jegdalek and Hesarak from three sides namely, Suroobi, Tezeen and Nangarhar areas.
According to the report hundreds of different kinds of vehicles and APCs along with thousands of troops participated in the offensive. The fighting lasted for six days 20 * tanks and APCs were destroyed and one Jet shot down.
About a hundred DRA and Russian troops were killed. While trying to save or take away, the destroyed Jet a Helicopter was destroyed on the ground by RPG-7. 13 Mujahideen were also wounded and martyred
                                              AFGHAN NEW YEAR
 March 21 is the first day of the Afghan New Year. It is also the first day of the spring and the beginning of activities for the farming communities which form the majority of the population of the country.
 Before the occupation the first day of the year was celebrated both by the people and the government ail over the country. Government arranged sports activities, raising flags on shrines and families gave alms to the poor, met relatives and all prayed for a happy new year.
 Since 1978, like ail sides of life of Afghans, this historic day has not been observed along traditional lines. Families are divided, people have died, villages and towns are destroyed, the country is divided between the occupied cities and the liberated countryside. 1/3 of the population has left the country and a bloody war between the people and the Soviet forces continues. Because of all the above changes Afghans do not have the opportunity to celebrate the first day of the new year on traditional lines and enjoy the company of relatives and friends in an atomosphere of peace and hope.
 Now the start of the new year marks the beginning of severe military activities. Large scale offensives will be launched as the weather conditions improve.
 For the farming community and the whole population this time of the year is economically difficult. The prices go high. As a result of the war and lack of rain, this year, this situation is worse. People in the cities and the country side do not have the ability to buy enough food for themselves For the farmers, lack of seed, cattle, and fertilizer are serious problems.
 Afghanistan's New Year is celebrated all over the world in the form of meetings, exhibitions and processions. Peace-loving people of the world show their solidarity with the Mujahid Nation of Afghanistan who have been struggling for seven long years against a Super Power to preserve their freedom and honor.
 The New Afghan Year will be witness to more political and military activities by the Soviets against the Afghan Nation . This will be a very important year for the Afghans and the cause of freedom in general. We hope the year (1366) will be a witness to more victories for the Mujahideen kWe have a hard year ahead of us but we go ahead with determination and a hope for total victory and a return of peace.