RFGHRH KEUS WL.III, HO.M.7, 1/1/ 1987 PRBE W
    enemy post in Narang sub-district and Sarksni district with mortars and ground-to-ground rockets. Three militias were killed and two others wounded. One enemy tank was destroyed.The Mujahideen returned to their bases suffering no casualties.
    5/3/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at in co-ordianlion with other parties launched an attack on the enemy post in Badail valley. Mujahideen made use of 107mm rockets and mortars. Five communists were killed and three others wounded.The enemy retaliated with artillery fire and aerial bombardments of the positions of the Mujahideen. The report does not give any figure for the casualties of the Mujahideen.
    14/2/1987. Twelve enemy soldiers and officers who were on patrol, were killed when they entered a minefield planted by the Mujahideen in Khas Kunar district.
                            NANGARHAR PROVINCE                                  «
    17/2/1987. The enemy launched a surprise attack against Mujahideen in Shiwa district. Fighting took place between the two sides. 6 of the enemys were captured alive by the Mujahideen and the rest managed to retreat. The report is silent about casualties on ' both sides.
    26/2/1987. Mujahideen from Jamiat which were assisted by Mujahideen from other parties launched an attack against the enemy posts in Goshta district.The Mujahideen made use of 107mm rockets. Shells hit the target but the casualties of the enemy were not immediately known.
    27/2/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at in Surkhroad district attacked the enemy garrison in Sultan Poor-e-UIya with 107mm rockets. Four enemy soldiers were killed.
    27/2/1987. Mujahideen belonging to all the parties attacked enemy positions in Goshta district with 107mm rocket. Only one Mujahid was injured during the operation. The enemy suffered heavy casualties. Several buildings were set on fire and several trucks destroyed.
                                     RAPfSA AND PER WAN PROVINCES
    4/3/1987. Mujahideen from Jamiat and Hezb Islam! (Hekmatyar group) launched an attack against enemy positions around Guibahar Textile mills located at the mouth of Panjshir valley. Fighting started at 7 pm and continued All 5:00 Pm the next day. The enemy pounded the positions of Mujahideen with long-range artillery from different bases located in the area and the airforce. Mujahideen from Jamiat captured 30 AK-47s, one AK-74, 4 Rocket Launchers and one communication set of R-108 type and some ammunition of different kinds. Seven Mujahideen were martyred and three others wounded.
    More than a hundred puppet soldiers were killed and wounded and some others captured. Mujahideen from Hezb also captured some weapons.
    4/3/1987. To mark the historic uprising of the people in Kabul against the invaders the Mujahideen launched a co-ordinated attack against the enemy convoys and security posts on Charikar-Matak section of the Satan g Highway More than 30 tanks and trucks were destroyed and 40 soldiers killed and wounded. Mujahideen casualties are not mentioned in the report.
    The Mujahideen also launched an attack against the Soviet base in Qaia-i-Surkh at the mouth of the Salang valley The enemy suffered heavy casualties. As a result of the enemy's retaliatory fire, two civilians were martyred and seven others wounded. The Mujahideen did not suffer any casualties.
    14/2/1987. Mujahideen from Jamiat in Guibahar and Shaikhan Khail (at the mouth of the Panjshir valley) attacked the puppet garrison near Guibahar Textile Mills. A political commisarwas killed and 3 soldiers injured. Mujahideen captured one AK-47