AFGHANews Vol 6, No2, January 15,1990, page©
Soviet parliament condemns 79 invasion of Afghanistan
The Soviet Parliament has condemned the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979.
The chairman of die foreign committee of die parliament while tabling the resolution said that the invasion needs condemnation on moral and political grounds. But he said condemnation does not include the soldiers who participated in fighting in Afghanistan.
The parliament observed one minute silence for 15,000 Soviet soldiers who lost their lives in Afghanistan.
The current Soviet leaders accuse four people of making the decision to invade Afghanistan. These four leaders are now dead.
Earlier the Soviet parliament passed a law forgiving all those Soviet servicemen who committed crimes in Afghanistan.
It is interesting that despite the of-
ficial condemnation of the invasion, the Soviet leaders still support the Kabul regime which is a product of the invasion.
Some weeks ago. General Sagalov, who is considered to be close to Gorbachev defended the policy of supporting the Kabul regime and criticized those who opposed it
The Soviet leaders do not talk much about the more than one million Afghan people killed in the war by their soldiers and the destruction of most of that country by the Red Army.
Gorbachev and his colleagues) criticize the invasion because they were not directly involved in making the decision to invade Afghanistan and because the Soviet army could not win the war and as a result of that, the Soviet Union's prestige was damaged. Their cry is for their failure, not for the suffering of their victim who they still want to suffer.
French Government plans to re-open its Kabul embassy
The French government has decided to re-open its embassy in Kabul which was closed before the completion of the Soviet troops' withdrawal.
France is the first West European country to take such a decision and has informed its allies about it.
France and other Western countries evacuated their embassies last February on security grounds. They were afraid of the deterioration of law and order after the Soviet troops’ withdrawal.
At that time, the Kabul regime criticized the decision of Western countries and called it 'psychological war against the democratic Afghanistan'.
After the Soviet invasion the Western countries reduced their diplomatic missions to a level of protocol, but always defended having diplomatic relations with the Kabul regime. One of their arguments was that their embassies provided them with information they needed.
The re-opening of the French embassy will please the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime and they will interpret it as a sign of the regime's approval by the international community.
It is said that delegations from other Western countries have visited Kabul
to see the condition of their embassy buildings and talk to their local staff. It could an initial step for the re-opening their embassies.
i
A French scholar, Olivier Roy, told the BBC that some other Western countries may follow France by reopening their missions in Kabul.
A German diplomat in Islamabad said his country doesn't have any plan to re-open its embassy in Kabul.
January 3,1990
Jaddi 13,1368
Area/Tem. in Ce
H L
Kabul	2	-1
ranin 10mm, snow 1cm
North Salang	-8 -	10
rain 10mm, snow 8cm
Jabulseraj	2	0
rain 13mm, snow 12cm
Chekhcharan	2	-4
rain 9mm, snow 16cm
Mazar-i-Sharif	1	-1
rain 2mm
Kunduz	3	-1
rain 1mm
Maimana	1	-3
rain 1mm, snow 11cm
Herat	5	0
rain 3mm
Lashkargah	12	4
Ganfiz	0	-7
snow 20 cm
Jalalabad /	12	6
Faizabad	4	0
Shindand	9	1

Najibullah forces have fired 1,000 SCUD missiles in past 10 months
American special envoy to the Afghan resistance, Peter Tomsen, told VO A that since last February, the Soviets have sent 5500 plane loads of armament to the Kabul regime.
In an interview on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, he said that AN-76 transport planes have brought the arms and ammunitions to Bagram and Kabul military airports.
He disclosed that since the withdrawal of Soviet troops on February 15, 1989, the Kabul regime has fired 1,000 SCUD missiles from Kabul. The Soviets continue to deliver BM-27 ground-to-ground rockets and 240 mm mortars to the regime.
A SCUD missile costs about one million dollars. It is a medium-range rocket which are fired with the help of Soviet military advisors from Kabul and Mazar-i-Sharif.