AFGHANews Vol 6, No ll, June 1, 1990, page ©
From the Mujahideen press inside Afghanistan
Masood expresses solidarity with Kashmiri Muslims
The May 5th issue of Shoora, the Supervisory Council (SC) newspaper which is published inside Afghanistan, has many interesting articles. Here we present summaries of several:
In a front-page article, Ahmad Shah Masood has expressed his firm support for the Kashmiri Muslims' struggle for self-determination, and has condemned the oppressive measures which the Indian government has taken against Muslims in Kashmir.
Cmdr. Masood asks all freedom-loving nations, and especially the Muslim countries, to extend their moral and political support to Muslims in Kashmir, and to call on the Indian government to allow the people of Kashmir to determine their own future.
The second article of the paper describes Eid celebrations in the provincial capital of Takhar. The paper says about 20 thousand people gathered in the Central Mosque of Taliqan city to offer Eid prayer.
Justice Abdul Khalil addressed the gathering, emphasizing the importance of Jehad in Islam.
Engineer Sharifullah Esmatyar, head of the political committee of the SC's north zone, discussed the many crimes which the communists committed in Afghanistan.
Dr. Ahmad Mushahid, the governor of Takhar, discussed the security situation in the province, which he described as good. He asked the people to cooperate with the Mujahideen to preserve law and order in the province.
Sayyed Habibshah, head of the Islamic guidance committee of the SC, exposed the true identity of the communist regime in Afghanistan.
At the end, Maulawi Abdul Qadir gave a sermon about the importance of fasting during the holy month of Ramadhan.
After offering Eid prayers, the ula-ma, city dignitaries, commanders and officials of different committees attended a luncheon given by the governor in Taliqan Municipal Club.
Regarding educational activities of the SC central zone, the paper says that about 14,000 students started school in Parwan, Kapisa and north of Kabul when the new academic year started.
Prof. Mohammad Sharif Aman, the head of the central zone's education committee, told Shoora that his committee runs five high schools, 15 secondary schools and some primary
schools. The students are taught by 850 teachers, 350 of whom received training last winter in new teaching methods, he added.
Prof. Aman said that besides religious subjects, natural science, history and foreign languages are taught in the schools. He added that the first group of students will graduate from high school of the Council at the end of the present academic year. -
Shoora criticizes the Tanai-Hikmatyar alliance in a long article. The paper argues that the Hikmatyar-Tanai alliance contradicts the principles of Jehad. The paper says that Hezb Islami isolated itself by joining hands with the Khalq party in a bid to reach power. According to the paper, most Hezb members cannot justify the alliance. According to Shoora, if it were not for the fear of reprisals against critics within the party, a large number of Hezb members would have expressed their dismay over the issue publicly.
Mujahideen hurt
From page. (7)
When Agha Khan started his work as the UN coordinator, he said the political and humanitarian issues had to be dealt with separately and that he was concerned with the humanitarian issues only. But as the time passed he has started to say things which are offensive to the resistance, and has acted in favor of the Kabul regime.
The real reason behind Sadruddin's remarks is unknown. It might a sign of his frustration over his mission's lack of achievement. For someone who wants to become the next UN Secretary General, his accomplishments in Afghanistan have been very few. He might hold the resistance responsible for his failure, giving rise to his edged and vengeful remarks.
Another reason for Sadruddin's hostile attitude towards the resistance may be the close relationship between Afghanistan's Ismaili community and the Kabul regime. Sadruddin, who comes from a leading Ismaili family, might feel closer to the Kabul regime because of his community's interest
The reasons for Sadruddin's negative attitude towards the Mujahideen are uncertain, but his statement harms the reputation of die United Nations, which has a mandate to work for peace in Afghanistan. The UN Secretary General should tell Sadruddin to abstain from hostile remarks against Jehad and the Mujahideen, because he is an agent of the UN. If Sadruddin cannot control his mouth, he should resign from his present post. Then he can make all the comments he wants. His UN post and his offensive remarks do not go together.
Sadruddin should know that a people with a record of ten years of war against a ruthless superpower must be a proud nation. Such a nation may be poor, but will never accept humiliation in any form.
Editorial
| From Page (4)	|
leadership of the resistance for his own political ends.
A strong point about the ex-king, in the opinion of his admirers, is his recognized personality. No doubt he is a famous man at home and abroad, but he is not the only famous person in Afghanistan. During the past ten years Mujahideen political leaders and field commanders have become famous. The reputation of some of the commanders of the Mujahideen exceeds that of the ex-king. If fame were the key to the problems Afghans are facing. Mujahideen political and military leaders would have solved them.
Besides fame, an organisation is necessary. The ex-king lacks such an organization and it is unlikely he can create it now.
It seems that Zahir Shah's offer to mediate is designed to win him control of the third party for a transitional period. Elections and transitional adminis tration are topics of discussion between the superpowers. Once he fills the transitional role, he can use his influence to make it permanent by calling Jirgas (tribal assemblies) with the blessings of the outside powers.
For the followers of the Islamic movement, the return of Zahir Shah and a secular government is not acceptable. Only old bureaucrats, landlords and leftist elements are interested in the return of such a system.
The outcome of giving up more than one million martyrs must be a truly Islamic state, and a new system in which the people of Afghanistan should participate in running their country. The pleasure of the outside world is of secondary importance in this struggle of life and death.
9(e[p us puBCisH
(Please send your donations to the foCknuing account number:
ffM&D Account Hp. 735-37 (Habib (BanJ^Ltd.
‘Iefikcd Bala, Teshatuar (Palostan