                          SlgXBgS AgCI^T_^T,BROTHBRS
 Cur enemy, the Soviets, are teaching that Mujahideen are reactionaries who do not treat their women-well and deprive them of political cultural and educational activities. They do this to justify their invasion.
 On the other Hand some Westerners also think in a similar way and are hesitants to support the Mujahideen wholeheartedly.
 While Soviets propaganda is part of their total war against Afghans the westerners’s doubts are based on lade of enough knowledge of Islam and nature of Afghanistan resistance.
 Simple facts reject these theories. Jamiat Is1ami is branded by many westerners as a fundamentalist party. This organization has women's.^branch and is running girls school in Pakistan. The women’s branch of Jamiat .has a monthly paper called :;I.‘omenat” the r.vuslin women.
 The only difference betvreen our education system and that which is' common iji the west is the observation of the cultural values of our people.
  • * . • •
 different types or clothes do^ not have any relationship with education. -
 Cur sisters are as active in the support of Jehad as our brothers.
                          FILij^CEWTE?^ CP^JED
 Jamiat Islami opened a Film Centre on January sixth. The purpqse of the centre is to train young war cameramen and photographers to bring films *
 from inside the country and send them to the rest of the world. So far there has not been a system to do this regularly.
 In the past some T.V companies have sent teams inside and some freelance journalists also went to bring films and photographs. 3ut for such a big war and vast country these teams are too few.
 The Film Centre is new. and does not have proper’equipment, But the main point about this Centre is that its instructers have experiences in T.V and camera work, and have the ability to train good students and are determined to work inside the country.
 Jamiat Islam! feels that establishing such a centre is a step forward towards informing the world about the difficulties our people are facing in their struggle against the Soviet invaders and the atrocities they a*e committing against the Afghan people.
 Any material support in this direction is fully appreciated and serves