AFGHANews Vol 6, No 10, May 15,1990, page ©
Comment by:
Mohammand Es’hciq
Najib blames party ideology for Afghan people’s tragedy
Najibullah, the head of the Kabul regime, has admitted that his party's Marxist-Leninist ideology has been the main cause of the tragedy of Afghanistan.
Talking to party workers in KabqJ on April 22, he stressed the need for changes in the program of the People's Democratic Party (PDPA) to bridge the existing gap between the people and the party.
Najib told his party comrades that he had abandoned socialism two years ago and that it had been a radical step for a party which had been fighting a socialist revolution fpr 20 years. He said socialist ideals could not solve the current problems of Afghan society.
He said the new ideology of his party was the struggle for National Reconciliation. He claimed that national reconciliation respected religion and society's traditions.
The leader of the communist regime revealed the difficulties communists were facing in religious and traditional Afghan society. He said communist activitists were not able to go ttf Muslim workers and farmers to express their true beliefs. He said 95 percent of the party members who have joined the party since the coup of 1978 have done so for reasons other than communist ideology. These members have no information about the basics of communism.
Najib said the original members who had joined the party before the coup believed in Marxism-Leninism. They genuinely believed that a Marxist revolution could solve the country's problems. These comrades, Najib said, now form only three percent of the party, and their beliefs have been culled from books with no regard for the realities of Afghan society.
Najib's admission of the mistakes of the PDPA is neither complete and nor based on an honest attempt to correct them. But the admissions are very significant since they have been made by the party's leader.
From Najib statement one can draw the following conclusions:
1-	PDPA was founded by Marxists . and it was struggling for a communist revolution.
2-	The communist policies, of the PDPA is the main cause of the current tragedy in Afghanistan. These policies hurt the religious feeling of the people
and made the people ready for armed struggle. In the past the regime said that the external factors were the principle factor behind the people’s uprising.
3-	There is big mistrust between the people and PDPA. The party people cannot reveal their true ideological believes to the ordinary workers of the party, leave alone the common men who are not party members.
4-	The past actions of Hezb has been described as mistakes which were motivated by good intentions of party leaders to serve the people;
Najib does not mention the role of the party as the local informers for the Red Army during the nine years of the occupation. Najib tries to say that the correction of past mistakes are possible and necessary to make PDPA able to play a role in the future politics of Afghanistan.
5-	Najib in his speaches refer several times to the changes in East Europe and as usual tries to follow an outside model , for the changes in Afghanistan.
*	6- Najib has tried to project him-
self as a peace-maker. In reality in most of the crimes committed so far against the people of Afghanistan either he has been directly involved or have done with his approval. He is one of those Marxist intellectuals of the party who promoted communist revolution. He served as the head of notorious secret police of the regime for six years. This is why he treats the old cadres of the party with respect and called them comrades who had good intentions to serve the people.
Najib's admissions reminds one of the clever tactics of some criminals during interrogation by the security forces. They usually admit committing several small crimes to take the attention of the interrogator away from major crimes he wants to conceal.
The Kabul regime has revoked
die
Tarakitegime,
The decree was the main source of discontent against the communist regime because it allowed to the government to interfere in the people's family affairs. '
Decree #7 regulated marriage | wntmdictel’ The.:. existmg: Ishmicmarriage law.in the countr^
|Some 250 Afghans rallied in the Indian capital on April 27 to demand the removal of the Kabul regime ieader|HajibulIah; iasia condition of ac<&pt&g' el^<^ x;;in ;di|ir ;;i:war-rayageifee^	Ifp \	:;	-
Tbe meeting was held h mark the communist coup of 1978*
Soviet secret pol ice exterminated a*	pebble
to i9^0, a senior KGB official has said in a rare newspaper interview, l^hshed in	J
* - * •-: f ||; •	the
five	‘
the Holy Quran as a present from Saudi Arabia- -•
||||be Rabta aKAIarii;- aL&hi (The World Muslim League) has piayed an intermediary role in the Saudi government’s decision to pro-vide the copies Of the Holy Book to Soviet Muslims. ... .
USSR admits killing of 15,000 Polish prisoners
The Soviet Union has officially admitted that its secret police massacred 15,000 Polish officers and soldiers during World War II in Katyn Forest, west of the Soviet Union.
The killing was carried out by the KNVD, the secret police of the Soviet Union in 1940 and predecessor of the KGB.
The Soviets in the past claimed responsibility for the massacre lay with Nazi Germany.
• May Day eelebrations an Kabul this year wets not ns glamorous as In the past The regime celebrated May D^^jiriRfing^ indoofl^
| , SMailyv die anniversary of April 27 communist revolution (coup of 1978^ wU5 not celcbralfid WithThe visual	and: colorful
After Tanai's coup and the Mujahideen attack on a rally in Herat, Najibftas behaved #ore ciMully*; :ffflbe lith anniversary of the Saur Coup was also marked by ’small indoor meetings.	f •
