flFGHRH HEHS ML.Ill, NO.It, t/e/l907,PR6E 6
  4. The key for solving the Afghanistan issue is in the hands of the Russians The problem started with the Russian invasion and can be solved by their withdrawal of the Russian troops. Mujahideen are entitled to form a government directly, but Russians present some excuse such as their fear of further bloodshed after the withdrawal of their troops So other ways could be sought
  5 Any solution must take into account the following points which are accepted by the Afghan people as the basic principles of their revolution
   a. The future regime in Afghanistan will be Islamic
   b Afghanistan could not be used as a base by any foreign country.
   c Afghanistan will have good relations with all its neighbors provided they do no^ interfere in its domestic affairs.
   d The right of self-determination is a basic right of the Afghan people.
   e No infringement can be made on the territorial integrity of Afghanistan
  6. Mujahideen are ready to talk to the Russians directly if they abandon their empty pride and recognize the reality of Mujahideen
  7 The following proposal could be considered as a possible way for the political solution: The present government in Afghanistan especially the military, police, and Khad are dissolved The ministers are removed and the deputy-ministers carry the activities of the ministry on an interim basis. A team of former generals and persons dealing with law and justice — those who are acceptable to the Afghan people — form an interim administration with a security force equipped with light weapons The administration -* which is not a government and cannot engage in diplomatic activities -- has two specific duties:
     (1) To provide security for the withdrawing Russian troops and to the pro-Russian Afghans
     (2) To hold a free gener?'. election International observers could also supervise the withdrawal of the Ru;r ii>n troops and holding of the election The elected council will write a new constitution and form a government.
  8  Zahir Shah could not solve the Afghanistan problem. He is being proposed by Russian circles not as a serious option but to achieve some other goals - including bringing disunity among Mujahideen Zahtr Shah has lost his power base in Afghanistan -- that is the tribe: and the tribal system He is weak and not capable of forming a government. He has some supporters but many others are against him and hold him responsible for the prtsent tragedy of the Afghan people Zahir Shah will create more problems than he solves
  9 Recent bomb explosions in Pakistan are also pan of the Russian propaganda war It is true that their aims arc to create misunderstanding among the refugees and the Pakistani people and to put pressure on the Pakistani Government to accept a political solution dictated by Russia But the Russians also want to create the impression that their subversive activities wUl come to an end once the refugees return to Afghanistan. This is not true. As Aqabacov s (a KGB agent who defected to the West) memoirs show, Russians have certain goals in Pakistan and the Russia Government designed a plan for widespread subversive activities in NWFP and Baluchestan as long ago as 193&. Refugees presence is no danger to the security of Pakistan. The establishment of a pro-Russian government in Afghanistan will pose a real threat to the security and national integrity of Pakistan
