flFBHRH HEIIB TOL.III, HO.6*.?, 1/V 190? PAGE 2.
everything which happens in Afghanistan is the responsibility of the Soviets because they are in full control of the occupied Afghanistan.
The world reaction towards such atrocities is very small and this absence of outcry against aggression will encourage the Soviets to repeat what they have been doing. Yesterday Afghanistan, today Pakistan; tomorrow will be any body else's turn. If the aggression is not stoped in Afghanistan the world will face a dangerous situation.
                                       NEWS
                               FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS

                                        KUNDQZ PROVINCE
14/3/1987. The Soviets launched a large scale offensive in Eundoz province and the district of Imam Sahib. Imam Sahib was bombed with tens of helicopter gunships which flew from the bases inside the Soviet Union and commando troops landed in the area. Several villages close to the border have been totally destroyed and the offensive in the area has been described as unprecedented by the report. Casualties among the civilian population are very high. The report does not give a specific number but says hundreds of old men, women and children have been martyred, Eundoz city suburbs have been surrounded by enemy armoured units. Search operations are continuing and in some villages commandos landed by helicopters. It is believed that the attack is a retaliatory action in response to a rocket attack by the Mujahideen inside Soviet territory which took place on 9/3/1987. The battle has continued for five days. No more details are available at the moment.
Eundoz is a province bordering the Soviet Union and has been the scene of several massacres in the past seven years.The Soviets have a big base in Abdan-i-Mir Alam and control Eundoz airport. It is a fertile province. The Resistance is well established in the area
An un-coqfirmed report says that a Soviet citizen has been captured by the Mujahideen in Eundoz The report does not specify the identity of the man an does not say if he was a miiitaryman or a civilian . The report further added that the mentioned prisoner was delivered to the Council of the North authorities on 20/2/1987,
                                        MAZARBSRARRBF
22/2/1987. Mujahideen from Jamiat attacked the enemy posts in the villages of Arghoon and Bahanuddin in Balkh district. Enemy evacuated the post Mujahideen captured guns and some ammunitions. The report does not give and details about the casualties of the enemy
                24/2/1987. Mujahideen captured three trucks belonging to the puppet regime on Mazar