1 Ot THE NAMEOP A1MMHTT ALLAH t
AFGH ANmews
           A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OE JAM I'AT ISLAM! AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN. V0L.llLN0.il, 1/6/1967.
                                                    AFGHAN'S EID
 Eid is celebrated after completion of one month of fasting. It is a great religious occasion in which the Muslims thank their Lord Almighty Allah who gave them the % strength to fulfil one of their most important obligations -- that is, the fasting during' the month of Ramadhan.
 On Eid Day, a Muslim washes his body, uses perfume and wears the best of his clothes before going to the Eid gathering. He also has to pay a definite amount of money as Sadaqa-i-Fetre for the poor to make him (her) able to celebrate the Eid without worrying for the meal of the day.
 People get together in special Eid gathering places and pray in congregation. Sermons are delivered by the religious scholar and different issues which mankind is facing are discussed in the light of Islamic teachings.
 After offering the prayers friends and relatives meet each other and share meal in an atmosphere of brotherhood and love. Presents are given uyhe children, visits are payed to those who are sick and crippled.
 Making use of the occasion people renew their friendly relationship with friends and relatives with whom they had developed some kind of unhappiness. Human beings make mistakes and sometimes offend their friends, neighbors, relatives and other human beings. Islam teaches Muslims to forgive and Eid is one of the occasion on which to practice the act of forgiveness.
 Before the war, the people of Afghanistan who are committed Muslims celebrated the Eid in traditional ways. It was one of the happy occasions In the life of the people. But communists took over and then the Soviet invasion ended the happy days of the Afghans.
 As a result of the war, the country was divided into the Soviet occupied and Mujahideen controlled (liberated) areas and the population were divided between those who remained in the country, either in the liberated or occupied areas, and those who left the country to live in exile as refugees. There is little contact between these three categories of people. Families have been divided and friends separated. More than half a million people have been killed and a large number have been crippled. The war has left a large number of families without a father and there is nobody to take care of them. All these things sadden the Afghans and when Eid comes the people feel the absence of their beloved ones.
 In the Soviet controlled areas an atmosphere of hypocrisy is prevailing. Godless communist celebrate Eid without prior fasting and attend with the congregations to deceive the Muslims in Eid gatherings. Imams on the government payroll, try to lustily Soviet occupation of Afghanistan and the policies of the puppets by quoting verses of Holy Quran. People suffer, but have no means to react.
 In the liberated areas the situation is better. They are free and enjoy the company of the rank and file of the Mujhhideen. The spirit of true Islam shines and everybody is tied together by the bond of faith. Shortages of commodities are compensated by a spiritual richness. The only problem is the (huger of enemy aerial attacks against the