AFGHAN NEUS UOL.III, HO.10,       15/5/1987,PAGE8
 farmers, to kill their cattle and to degrade their worship places This is a phenomenon which the theory of communism can not explain
 The cover story fabricated by the Soviet leaders that their soldier have gone to Afghanistan to defend a friendly country against imperialist aggression has been destroyed and their soldiers do not believe it any more, This is why they are demoralized They are are also demoralized because they are not treated as heroes by the Soviet people when they return home from Afghanistan.
 Gorbachev's comments about the "courage'' of the Soviet soldiers and his "pride" about the dirty work they do, are actually meant to alleviate the frustration of those soldiers who are fighting an unjust war for no good reason
 Gorbachev, who is now the Chief Commander of the Soviet armed forces, should be ashamed because of the continuation of a colonial war. There is no room for him to b# proud,
 Death and shame to all aggressors who talk about peace but continue war and cause the suffering of millions of innocent people!
                                 DEATH OF A PROMINENT AFGHAN POET
 Khalilullah Khalili, the famous contemporary Persian poet died at age of 85 in Islamabad on May 4th Khalili who had worked as Minister. MP and Ambassador resigned from his duty when the communists took power in 1978 and has remained in exile since then.
 Khalili spent most of his life-in-exiie writing poetry which reflected the tragic situation in Afghanistan. Most of his work has been published and some of it has been translated into other languages.
 Khalili preferred to spend the last days of his life in Pakistan — close to the Mujahideen and refugees, In the last ten years of his life he came into contact with the ;i i common men from all walks of life coming from different parts of the country, The people were affected by his poetry and he was affected by the stories of the heroic resistance of the people of his country and their great sufferings.
 He lived a simple life. He was always thinking about the freedom of Afghanistan and praising the courage of the Mujahideen with his beautiful poetry. He did a great service for his country at a time when it was needed the most.
 Khalili was famous not only in Afghanistan, but also in Iran, Pakistan and the region as a whole His death was a loss to the people of Afghanistan May Allah grant him peace.
                                        A PIECE OF CANDY FOR A CHILD
 Tass reported that a Syrian cosmonaut will join two Soviets in a space mission. At first look it seems good news: an Arab and Islamic country has reached that level of technological development to be able to send astronauts into space
 If this mission were a real development, a sign of genuine progress we would have been more than happy. The sad fact is that it is a political decision of a ceremonial nature
 Syria as the head of the so-called radical Arab states, has played an important role in defending the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan as well as the spread of Soviet
 influence in the Arab world.
                    Sending a Syrian cosmonaut ona space mission is like giving a piece of candy to a child