?oi4, He £5, Awgmx	Page	4
AFGHANews
PO !c& 264, Pg$ha:%^’aPalsi3lii& T©£i 41131
1		
Editorial	1
I Cordovezs proposal seems I	impractical
THE first political move of Cordovas* the UN envoy on Afghanistan, which resulted in the agreement at Geneva on May 15, l^Sdi was rejected on different grounds by Mujahideen, now the second one , is paving the way for a broad-b&sed government' is proposed to be tested.
The jist of the second is the “Cooling-off" period, Najibs removal; cease-fife. Leva jirga and establishment of a “national government of peace,'1 All in leas than eight months. The Mujahideen Alliance under Mr, G&Uinl was not united In I rejecting or accepting it, Mr G&i lanl and Mr. Mujaddudi | welcomed the proposal and the rest rejected it, i The proposal was perhaps drafted with the good intention to bring about peace m Afghanistan but certainly drafted in a real hurry, over-optimism and lack of practical knowledge of the socio-political and military situation In the country,
A broad-based government, for the Mujahideen and people who fought for over tea years to defeat the enemy, does not mean coalition with the puppet regime or joining hands with the PDF A, People sU :sd their fight against the PUPA in order to remove it and not to make a coalition, By non-Mujahideen government we mean those who are against the invasion and Communism but have not been able to participate in the struggle.
The notion of a cease-fire in the proposal is vague and unclear. Ceasefire with whom? Witt It be with the puppet regime? With the interim government? With the KHAE>, and the militias and army of the PD PA ?
The removal of Na$ib is a good sign in the proposal, but what about the KHAD? militias, Sarautoov {paramilitary foree) and army? Witt the proposal d ismantS e them?
The Leya jirga has no doubt in Afghanistan been a traditional way of choosing the government and solving the socio-political problems la a certain period of time and under unique conditions But it was used to he arranged under j relatively established governments which had backing of an j absolute majority of the people. There was no irreeonciliable j situation in that society such as Islam and atheism, Therefore j the jirga or traditional grand assembly will not foe practical j while the PDPA and all its protective institutions are holding j power,
; So the key to the solution would be the total withdrawal of j the Soviet troops from Afghanistan and the unconditional j departure of the PDPA or the puppet regime from power.
Shia scholar criticizes interim government
A prominent member of the High Council at the seven Shia parties based in Iran, in a press conference on July 12, ceriticteed the Mujahideen's present interim government for having no representation of the Shia community.
This came at a time when the UN's special envoy on Afghanistan, Mr. Cordovez resumed his efforts for the formation of a provisional government or to his favour 'a national government for peace composed of independent and impartial Afghans in which neither Mujahideen nor the Kabul regime would have any role.
On his way to Pakistan from Geneva. Mr, Cordovez stopped over in Tehran to have, probably for the first time, a discussion with the Shia leaders based in Iran.
Mr, Hadi blamed the IUAM for partial composition of its interim government reasoning that it does not represent large communities, a reference to the Shia community. Claiming that the Shia community inside Afghanistan represents 33 per cent of the whole population, he added that Shias would form a similar government 11 the composition of the IUAM's interim government was not modified to include ail the Afghan Mujahideen parties.
It should be mentioned that the Mujahideen’s present government which is only passing its initial stage has so far appointed 15 members to its cabinet in which, Mr, Wasiq is the only Shia member and the rest of the proposed ministfial posts are allocated to Sunnis who form the absolute majority in Afghanistan,