RFRHRH HEUS 001.111, HO,8, 15/^/ 1987 P«l5
                                             A LETTER TO THE EDITOR
 / THE FOLLOWING LETTER WAS SENT ST HASTE BROXUF TEE ASSOCIATE EDITOR OE CENTRAL ASIAN SURVET. AND TEE EDITOR OE TEE CENTRAL ASIAN NEVE LETTER. SEE AND EIS FATEER ARE EXPERT SON CENTRAL ASIA AND STUB? TEE EFFECT OF TEE AFGHAN IVAR ON TEE IfUSLIMS OF CENTRAL ASIA/
 I entirely agree -with you that the Soviets are not offering anything new at the moment, and I do not share the optimism of those vho expect a political solution very soon. I will try and resume some of my thoughts:
 I think that there is some sincerity in Gorbachev when he says that he wants to end the war. This is not of course for any humanitarian peace-loving reason as advanced by* naive journalists, but because of growing and almost insoluble problems at home (some of them the direct result of the Afghan war). But ending the war does not. at this stage, automatically mean that they are willing to withdraw. As you yourself put it "we want Afghanistan but we do not want to fight for it'.
 However much the Soviets may wish to end the war, and assuming that they may even be willing to leave Afghanistan,. I doubt that they could afford to do so with the stigma of defeat. As the situation is now, a rapid withdrawal of Soviet troops would be seen for what it is: a military defeat for the Russians and the proof of the ideological failure of communism. This would be a very dangerous precedent for them Apart from the loss of prestige in the-Middle East and the Third Vorld, consequences of a Russian defeat could be even more dramatic at home, especially in Central Asia.
 If communism is seen to obviously fail in Afghanistan, then why not in Tashkent, Baku. Samarkand, Varsaw? "If the Afghans defeat the invincible Russians, then perhaps we, Uzbeks, Kirghiz, Poles etc have a chance".
 As it is, I am totally convinced that were it not for the example of the Afghan resistance, such violent riots would not have occured in Alma Ata so soon. Problems for the Russians are only just starting, not only in Kazakhistan but in the vhole of Central Asia and Caucasus. Similar problems, or "negative phenomena' as Gorbachev calls them, are now already f acing the Russians in the other Central Asian republics. They have reacted by unleashing one of the most violent anti-Islamic and anti-nationalist campaign since Khrushchev and Stalin "s days. This will of’course only exacerbate anti-Russian xenophobia
 What is more since the Alma Ata riots, a serious of new legislation is being passed which for the first time in the history of the Soviet Union is going to split the Communist party and the administration along ethnic lines - Russians versus Muslims This will result in the same chaos as among Khalq and Parcham The same discrimination is now applying all among the lines, encouraging the birth rate among the Russians but trying to curb it among the Tajiks, etc. Whatever the shortcomings of the Soviet Union previously, it was always “one" monolithic state, with the same laws for everybody (at least on paper). This is now changing and, I believe in time will lead to catastrophe for the Soviet leaders
 Militarily you know better than I hov disastrous the situation is for the Soviets, especially now with the stingers It is well known that "a regular army who cannot win a guerrilla war completely, totally and quickly, has lost" while guerrillas who just manage to go on fighting will win.
 Thus I think that the Soviets will put all their energy and skill in trying to find an "honourable" for them political solution. Nothing of course will be settled in Geneva (this is just gaining time), and eventually they will have to come to the bargaining table directly with the Resistance. They have no other options, unless of course they decide on one last major and final offensive trying to bomb the Afghan population out of existence. They may attempt to do this anyway in order to be able to claim that they are leaving Afghanistan on a victory. (Being an optimist I do not think that they really