N
AFGHANcws Vol 6, No 8, April 15,1990, page ©
From Mujahideen press inside Afghanistan
Famine threatens people in northern provinces
Famine threatens the life of hundreds of thousands of people in the northern provinces of Afghanistan, stated an article in the latest issue of 'Shoora'newspaper.
Due to war, lack of rainfall, locusts and sunn-pest beetles, farm production in Badakhshan, Takhar, Kunduz, Samangan, Bamyan, Jawzjan, Badghis and Faryab provinces was very low last year, said "Shoora." The people in these provinces are facing severe food shortages.
The shortages in Badghis, Faryab and Badakhshan provinces are particularly acute, the paper adds. In Maimana, the provincial capital of Faryab, one seer (seven kilograms) of wheat cost 2000 Afs, while in the outlying districts it costs 3000 Afs. This price is four times higher than in previous years.
The paper added that a large number of people are leaving the country and moving towards the city in search of food. Cold weather, roadblocks and food transportation problems created by regime militiamen have exacerbated the problem.
The paper stressed the need for urgent international assistance for the people in the affected areas, and asked
Mohammad Nasim Akhundzada, an important Mujahideen commander, and four of his companions were killed in an ambush outside Peshawar on March 25.
He ‘was Harakat Inqilab Islami (Mohammadi party) chief commander in Helmand province.
He was on his way to a refugee camp when four gunmen opened fire on his jeep on Cherat Road, about 30 kilometers outside Peshawar.	1
Two of his txxlyguards and two other commanders who were travelling with him were also killed while one person sustained injuries and another escaped unhurt
The body of Nasim Akhundzada was flown to Quetta to be taken to Musa Qala District in Helmand for burial.
According to Harakat sources one of the culprits was captured and he was transferred to Helmand for
Mujahideen parties to give all possible help to famine-stricken people.
In addition to food, there is need for anti-pest chemicals to save the current year's crop. A timely rainfall would raise hopes for a good harvest.
The paper also asked those people who have stored foodstuffs to give food to the needy to save them from starvation. Feeding the hungry is the religious duty of every Muslim, the paper concluded. .
In another article, 'Shoora' wrote that Supervisory Council made good use of the past Afghan calendar-year to organise and train its army, launch limited attacks, rehabilitate internal refugees and rebuild mosques, houses and office buildings all over .the territory controlled by the Council.
The paper said that unfortunately, international assistance to the Miijahideen, both military and nonmilitary, has decreased, while Soviet assistance to the Kabul regime has increased.
'Shoora' is fortnightly paper published in Warsach, Takhar province, Afghanistan, by the Cultural Committee of the Supervisory Council.
interrogation .
Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi told reporters that Mohammad Rasool Akhundzada, Nasim. Akhundzada's brother, has been appointed the commander of Harakat in Helmand. He called the death of commander Akhundzada a great loss to all Mujahideen.
Nasim Akhundzada started Jehad under Taraki's regime, and has been fighting against the Soviets and the puppet regime since then.
The Western media took the opportunity to repeat their accusation of Akhundzada's involvement in growing poppy in the areas he controlled.
Harakat sources have said that he was keen to eliminate cultivation of poppy.
It is said that Nasim Akhundzada commanded about 10,000 Mujahideen in Helmand and neighboring provinces.
refugees sent home by UN
| From page (1)	|
power. The prince also met with some Afghan intellectuals.
Prince Sadruddin and his friends flew for a one-day tour to Kabul during which he talked to Najib, Walril and Sultan Ali Keshtmand.
Pakistani authorities have complained that support for the Afghan refugees has decreased. Peter Tomsen, US special envoy to the Afghan resistance, gave cautious support to the program. But he expressed concern about the safety of the returning refugees, who might be attacked by the Kabul regime.
Prince Sadruddin flew to Tehran for similar talks with Iranian officials and leaders of Shia groups.
One-day safaris to " Tranquility Zones"
Despite UN tlaims that the security situation in Afghanistan has improved, its delegations refuse to stay overnight in Kabul. They plan their visits so that by evening they are out of the Afghan capital.
Mr. Cordovez, former UN General Secretary's Special Envoy ,to Afghanistan, took one-day trips to Kabul when he was in charge, and the present UN representative, Benon Sevan, does the same. Prince Sadruddin's recent trip to Kabul was also a one-day tour to discuss his proposal for creation of "Peace and Tranquility Zones” with the rulers of Kabul.
fHeCp us pubtish Jl?QlHfyh(ezvs!
TUostsend your donations to the following account number:
Account 9{p. 735-37 Mabib ‘Bank.Ltd.
‘Tefkat ‘BaCa, Teshazvar ‘Fafastan
■
Mujahideen commander murdered in Peshawar
)