Prof. Rabbani discusses future
plans with Iran-based parties
THE Chairman of the Mujahideen Alliance has led a delegation to Iran to hold talks with the Iranian leaders and to discuss the issues regarding Jehad with the Mujahideen parties based in Iran.
Prof. Rabbani left Islamabad for Tehran (Hi 24 December. He held talks with President Khanmenia on December 26 and briefed him on Taif i talks and discussed with him the latest situation in Afghanistan.
President Khamenia said that Iran's support for the rightful resistance of Afghan people would continue.
Earlier, Prof. Rabbani held similar j ialks with Prime Minister Mir Husain ' Moosavi and Foreign Minister Welayati who expressed support for the people of Afghanistan in their struggle for freedom.
I
The Mujahideen leader also will meet the heads of the Mujahideen parties based in Iran and will discuss with them the issues relating to Jehad. He will try to unify the positions of the Mujahideen regarding the talks with the Soviets.
Prof. Rabbani will inform these leaders about the Taif talks and will seek their support for the next rounds of talks which will be held in Islamabad.
Eight Shia parties based in ban have formed an Alliance. These parties ’ wore critical of the Taif talks because they were not involved in them and were not consulted either.
After the Taif talks, the Soviets proposed to hold similar talks with the Alliance based in Iran but so far the proposal has not been accepted.
Prof. Rabbani will try to convince the Mujahideen Alliance in Iran that separate talks with the Soviets will weaken the position of the Mujahideen.
A possible solution is inclusion of the representative of the Iran-based parties in the delegation which will participates in the talks with the Soviets.
Shaikh Asif Mohsini a leader of Iran-based alliance has said that separate talks with the Soviets is harmful to the cause of the Mujahideen.
He criticized the Mujahideen leaders in Peshawar for not consulting him before going to Taif.
The alliance of the Mujahideen in Iran consists of Shia groups coming
from the central part of Afghanistan. They are representing a minority of the population in Afghanistan and compared to the Mujahideen parties in Pakistan are weaker in military strength.
An estimated 1.5 million Afghan refugees live in Iran.
Taif talks moral victory for Mujahideen
THE Alliance leader stated that Taif talks between the Mujahideen and Soviets represent a moral victory for the cause of Afghans.
Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, the current chairman of the Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen and the head of the Muajahideen delegation to Taif, addressed a press conference on December 18 in Islamabad. Prof. Rabbani said he hoped the Soviets will come with new proposals in the next round of talks in Islamabad.
The Mujahideen leader said he asked the Soviets to withdraw their troops before February 15 and to stop
Regime's diplomat defects
THE first secretary of the Kabul regime embassy in North Korea has defected to the West.
Mohammad Mansoor Tahiri, who had been an official of the foreign ministry of Afghanistan for 24 years, said to the reporters in New Delhi that he has
►v
registered with the UN as a refugee. Earlier the puppet foreign minister of the regime and one of its officials in trie UN asked for asylum in the US.
offensive attacks against the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen delegation also demanded compensation for the destruction the Soviets have inflicted on Afghanistan and the cutting of all forms of support to the communist regime in Kabul. The Mujahideen asked the Soviets to remove the Scud missiles andMig-27 which they have introduced recently.
Prof. Rabbani said he asked the Soviets to recognize the government of Mujahideen and to guarantee noninterference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan in the future.
The Mujahideen delegation demanded the release of prisoners of war and the return of the Afghan children taken to the Soviet Union for brain-washing.
When the Soviet delegation was in Taif Prof. Rabbani said that their forces escalated the war. The heavy bombing of Badakhshan and sending troops to Kandahar were two examples of such aggressive actions.
The chairman of the Alliance criticized the Soviets' attempt to talk separately with the Mujahideen parties in Iran and called it an attempt to divide the Mujahideen. He said while the Alliance is in favor of the participation of the Iran-based parties in the negotiations, there should be one sole delegation of the Mujahideen. Separate talks .weaken the position of the Mujahideen.