RFCHfiN h€MS VCL. Ill, HO. 13, 1/7/ 1907 PflCE 6
                            A NEW PHASE OF THE SOVIETIZATION PROGRAM
Soviets invaded Afghanistan and tried to change the vay of life of its people. This program vhich is knov as "Sovietization' is a long term process and covers all aspects of Afghans life.
The main theme at the beginning vas influencing the educational system by introducing nev curriculum and sending a large number of students (especially very
young children) to the Soviet Union.
A nev phase of Sovietization started after Babrak vas replaced by Najib This nev phase has a geographical nature.
                                                                                                                   I
Najib, vhen visiting Badakhshan at the beginning of the current year revealed a pregram according to vhich Northern provinces of Afghanistan vill come in close cooperation (cultural, educational, economic and even religious) vith the neighboring Central Asian States of the Russian Empire. The purpose of such a program seems to ' transform the pattern of Afghans life completely into Soviet style and make the Northern part of Afghanistan totally dependent on Soviets, in the past fev months the regime media gives the nevs of exchange of delegations betveen the province* in the North and Soviet Central Asian Republics.
In practical fields, cross-border military operations takes place against the Mujahideen and in Mazar-i-5harif pover is transmitted from the Soviet pover plants for use in the military bases inside Afghanistan and even for use in some villages under control of the puppets The North of Afghanistan is covered by Soviet TV and Radio
Retaliatory measures against the people in this area is very severe. A small ambush against a Soviet convoy across the River vill bring massive offensives and cause tragic incidents of massacres.
From all the above it seems that the Soviets have special program in the area. One reason could be the ethnic, linguistic and religious connections of the Northern provinces vith the Soviet side of the Oxus River Soviets are putting all their efforts to change the situation in their favor to avoid the unvanted effects of a lost var on the Muslim people in Central Asia.
Despite all the efforts, the Resistance in the North is very strong, veil organized and led by a vise military and political leadership. Morale in the area is high and the people fully support the resistance.
But because of Geographical situation of the area and in the face of enemy’s extensive plans. Mujahideen have to pay close attention to the area and besides military plans have to drav political, economic and educational programs to cope vith the nev developments. To do this co-operation among the Mujahideen forces is of prime importance It is also important to put enough resources at the disposal of the commanders of the area to do their multi-dimentional job better. The situation is critical and needs urgent attention.
                              JAMIAT REPRESENTATIVE VISITED CANADA
Najibullah "Lafrsie", the head of the Political office of Jamiat Islami Afghanistan left Peshaver for Canada to participate in a 3 day Conference organized by International Human Concern.
The conference vas held from the 26th to 28th of June. Najibullah vill be given the chance to talk about different aspects of Afghan Jehad and to try to encourage further Humanitarian and political support for the Afghan cause. Najibullah also vill talk to the people in the Media to drav the public attention tovards the grave situation in Afghanistan International Human Concern is a relief organization run by Muslims living m Canada.