Vol 5, No 10	May	15,1989
Tehran talks not final
Celebrations in Shadow of war
The Regime celebrated the 11th anniversary of the communist coup amid fear of Mujahideen attacks.
The military parade which was planned for the occasion was held one day earlier than scheduled. The guests, mainly from East European countries were awakened before dawn to watch the parade. About 1000 people had gathered to see the parade.
The Soviet Ambassador to Kabul, Yuri Vorontsov, arrived when the ceremony was halfway through. A regime official said that the change of schedule was due to security considerations.
The parade took 40 minutes and the streets were deserted. The Regime had blocked the roads leading to the area where the parade was held.
At least 65 rockets poured into Kabul killing 27 and injuring 60. One of the rocket hit the security perimeter of the presidential palace.
Negotiations between the Peshawar-based alliance and the Iran-based coalition ended with understanding that the talks will continue in Pakistan.
Prof. Rabbani, Jami'at leader, led a four-member delegation of the Alliance to Teheran to persuade Iran-based parties to participate in the interim government. Four rounds of talks were held during which the problem was discussed.
A four-point memorandum was signed by the two sides asking for unity among the resistance forces, the continuation of armed struggle against the communist regime, need to form a permanent government based on elections and continuation of a dialogue between the two sides.
A delegation of Iran-based parties will come to Pakistan to continue the dialogue.
The two sides also rejected the ru-
mors accusing Iran-based parties of holding talks with the communist regime in Kabul.
The Mujahideen delegation also met with Iranian president and foreign minister to discuss the situation with them.
Prof. Rabbani also spent much time meeting with Afghan refugees and representatives of Mujahideen.
Prof. Rabbani said on his return from Iran that discussion with Iran-based parties took place in a cordial atmosphere.
Other members of the delegation were Qazi Najiullah (Hizb Islami Hikmatyar), Mawlawi Fazli (Harakat) and Dr. Zabihullah (Jabha).
The spokesman of the eight party coalition, Jan Ali zahidi, said in an interview with BBC that the two sides had agreed to coordinate their military activities against the communist regime.
stand in support of a country which was invaded by the Soviet Union. In addition, he established cordial relations with the Soviet-backed regime in Kabul while the Soviets were still present in Afghanistan.
The visit by Zimbabwean foreign minister may not be good news for the Mujahideen and it will not help Afghans in their struggle for self-determination.
The Harare meeting may call for a political solution in which the regime is a party. Such a solution has been re-jected by the Afghan resistance._
Communist leader killed
Regime radio reported that the Mujahideen have killed a Central Committee member of the Communist Party.
He was identified as Khalil Khusro and was buried in Kabul. He was given a posthumous bravery record.
NAM to discuss Afghan situation
The foreign minister of Zimbabwe, Mr. Nathan Shamnyarira, visited Islamabad, Kabul and Moscow to discuss the situation in Afghanistan.
He delivered the messages of Robert Mugabe, the current chairman of NAM to the leaders of Pakistan and Soviet Union and the head of the Kabul regime.
He also held talks with the foreign ministers in these countries and discussed the latest situation of Afghanistan with them.
He told reporters in Moscow that his country was in favor of a political solution to the Afghan problem. He said that Afghan issue will be discussed in the coming meeting of Coordination Bureau of the non-Aligned Movement in Harare.
Afghanistan, a member of the non-Aligned Movement, was invaded by the Soviet Union. Successive meetings of the non-Aligned Movement demanded the withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan.
The Movement's role remained limited to passing resolutions, it could not play a key role in support of a non-aligned country invaded by a superpower because the leadership of the Movement during the nine years of occupation were in the hands of Cuba, India and Zimbabwe, all of which have close ties with Moscow.
When Zimbabwe assumed the position of chairmanship of NAM, Afghans hoped for a better change but it did not happen.
Robert Mugabe did not take a clear