AFGHANews Vol5, No 5, March 1, 1989, page 3
February 15 historic day for Afghans
From page (1)
News
From page (2)
Baghlan province
In a series of attacks which continued from 6 to 13 February, the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Hasantal, close to Baghlan city, destroyed two enemy posts, captured 12 enemy^ soldiers and killed or wounded an unknown number of the enemy soldiers.
The Mujahideen seized 34 Kalashnikov rifles, three PK machine guns and three rocket launchers. One Mujahid was killed.	—
Herat province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at liber-ated Kushk district, close to the Soviet border, and cut Herat-Toorghondi road connecting Herat to the Soviet Union on February 18.
In fighting between the Mujahideen and government forces, 15 soldiers were killed, 20 soldiers were wounded and600 soldiers surrendered to the Mujahideen.
The Mujahideen destroyed eight tanks and two trucks and set on fire two ammunition dumps of the enemy.
In a separate operation, a DRA unit of about 300 men posted to protect Salma Dam, 60 kilometers east of the city of Herat, surrendered to the Mujahideen with their weapons a few days after the Soviet troops' withdrawal. No detail of the fighting is available.
The above two operations were carried out by the Mujahideen under die command of Ismail Khan.
Tank eats bus' share
People reaching Peshawar say that the people of Kabul not only are facing food shortages but also have to walk in severe winter because of fuel shortages which has stopped public transport.
Few buses are running in the streets and taxis charge too much money.
According to an eyewitness, the search for conscripts in the city has intensified and night raids of the houses are carried out for this purpose.
He confirmed earlier reports by the Mujahideen that the regime has imprisoned a large number of Punjshiri elders, espicially the relatives of the Mujahideen, to discourage the Mujahideen from attacking enemy targets.
Mian Nawaz Sharif, the leader of the opposition and Chief Minister of Punjab, congratulated Afghans on their victory which he called the biggest military success of Muslims in their history.
The withdrawal of Soviet troops also was welcomed by the United States, the E.E.C, Organization of Islamic conference and other countries.
Ironically the Resistance parties did not celebrate the victory for which they had struggled more than nine years. The reason was the parties' preoccupation with the proceedings of the Consultative Council which was facing problems.
The Soviets invaded Afghanistan on December 27,1979. The purpose of the invasion was to save the communist regime in Kabul, which was facing. a civil war.
Soviet involvement in Afghanistan continued for 9 years, one month and 18 days. They deployed 150,000 troops, thousands of tanks and hundreds of jets and helicopters.
They lost more than 15,000 men in action. 37,000 were injured and 311 Soviets reported to be missing.
The Afghans paid a dear price. About one million Afghans were killed, 7 million were displaced and 75% of all the villages and towns woe destroyed.
The Mujahideen were originally ill-equipped and disorganized. As time passed they gained better equipment and organized themselves better.
The role of Pakistan mid Iran in giving shelter to the refugees and the role of Pakistan in supporting Afghans by all possible means played pivotal part in achieving victory.
Parallel to continuation of the war, proximity talks between Pakistan and the communist regime continued. The talks started in 1982 and on April 14,1988 the Geneva Accord was signed.
The Mujahideen did not take part the accord. They continued to fight. Withdrawal of Soviet troops has taken the Mujahideen close to their goal, but there are still problems to overcome.
The Kabul regime still controls most cities. To achieve a complete victory, the Mujahideen need to defeat the regime and install a political system in its place. Reconstruction of Afghanistan will be a major task in front of the new government
The Soviet withdrawal was not taken easily by Najibullah, head of the communist regime. Immediately after the withdrawal a state emergency was announced. Non-party ministers were replaced by party members.
The Regime's foreign minister said the government would intensify security measures including search of houses.
The Regime has already started capturing Mujahideen relatives to use them as hostages to discourage the Mujahideen from launching attack. Reports talk of 2,000 Panjshiris being captured by the regime for this purpose.
The Regime wanted to demonstrate its power by holding a rally of 30,000 party members who were issued automatic rifles to defend the city. Only 6,000 party members attended die rally and all of them had to undergo a body search by security forces.
The Regime has formed a 19-member war council which is headed by Najib. Hasan Sharq, the Prime Minister, resigned and was replaced by Sultan Ali Keshtmand, a party member who served as the prime minister of the regime from the beginning of the invasion until last year.
Najib has sent messages to different world leaders informing them the Soviet withdrawal.ln these messages he has accused Pakistan and the United States of violating the Geneva Accord.
Najib sent a message to the Iranian leader asking him to help in persuading the Mujahideen to form a broad-based government with the communists, and observe a ceasefire.
Earlier 20 Iranian prisoners were released from Kabul prisons, an attempt to improve relations with Iran. The Iranian charge d1 affaires in Kabul saic that releasing prisoners would not improve relations between the two countries because Iran did not recognize the Kabul regime.
Najib is preparing himself for the defence of Kabul. Kabul has turned into a fortified city with' curfew imposed from dawn to dusk.
To boost the morale of its troops the regime claims to have discovered a Mujahideen plan of attack and to have captured large quantities of their arms and ammunition.