flFGHfiKesra Uol 4, Ho 1, ter ii 1,1968, PR5E 4
  Editorial ...
    Establishment of a popular regime in Kabul after the communists' defeat is s. political iob, but preserving the system and maintaining lav and order is a practical military problem. Bringing national unity to the country needs a proper military and political planing.
      As far as military victory over the regime is concerned, the Resistance has gained enough experience. Although the Resistance will not get aid from outside and may face shortage of some -weapons end all sorts of ammunitions but proper planing and careful choice of targets -will compensate that shortages.
      The victory over the regime -sill be a gradual process. Being a mountainous country Afghanistan provides good opportunities for cutting supply lines. Shortages of supplies for the regime over a. period of weeks will lead to her suffocation.
    Capturing enemy garrisons will provide food and ammunition. Victories cause further demoralisation and desertion in the puppet army. This could be done Through co-ordinated attacks by trained people. Those fronts -which have developed the proper organisation and have gained experience in coordinated attacks -will play a leading role.
      Short-sighted evaluation of the situation and over-simplification of the methods could lead to disaster. It will be immature to think of defeating the regime through attacks by tribal armies which lack decipline and the necessary skills in modern warfare.
    The fall of the regime is a must but it can be done through proper planning, adoption of suitable tactics and in a coordinated attack.
             Human-ring around the embassy
    More than 1500 Swedes I formed a human-ring j around the Soviet | Embassy in Stockholm to ; protest against the Soviet I occupation of I Afghanistan, j Minister of Development j Aid of the Foreign Office, Mrs. Lena Kielm Valien, i wes the chief speaker in • the mass meeting held on I the occasion . She said that \ there was need tc continue pressure- on the Soviets to withdraw their forces from Afghanistan..
  She told the meeting that the government was determined to continue giving humanitarian assistance to Afghans affected by the war. She also promised massive efforts in reconstruction of Afghanistan after the country has been liberated.
  Jan Stoipe, the Deputy Chairman of the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan.
 emphasised the need to continue supporting Afghans and putting pressure on the Soviets to leave Afghanistan.
  He criticized those who show* so much concern about what may happen after the liberation while during 9 years of occupation showed scant concern about, the suffering of Afghans
  The demonstration was sponsored by the Afghanistan Committee, Peace and Arbitration Committee, Sw'edish Church, and Central Labor Union.
  The appeal for the withdrawal of Soviet forces was signed by more than 100 organizations including major political parties.
  Demonstration against the Soviet invasion have became a yearly event on the occasion of Afghan new year, 21st March.
  This year the number of people participating in the demonstration was less than in previous years and the reason for that is the effect of the Soviet publicity about the withdrawal of their troops. Although the Soviets have not yet pulled their troops out of Afghanistan, some people think that the problem is over.
                                             Terrorists fire eight missiles to Peshawar
  EIGHT 10? mm missiles of Soviet making were fired by the terrorists from Khayber Agency which fell over two refugees' villages. a police colony and Pakistan         Eorest
                                             Institutes' residential area, on March 13 .