AFGHANews Vol 8, No 3, February 1,1992, page ©
Sakhi Ahmad
I and Zahir worked for the Mujahideen Radio in the Panjshir Valley. Soviets were preparing to launch the fifth offensive against the Valley. We went to Darband village, at the mouth of the valley and overlooking Shemali plateau, to pick up our small FM transmitter and take it to the upper part of the valley to continue our nightly transmissions during the offensive. The village was abandoned because the day before it was heavily bombed by Russianjets.
We found an old man in the center of the village. He had stayed in the village because he was unable to move. I asked him where the Mujahideen were. He pointed towards the hill overlooking the village. We went towards the hill calling the name of a local radio operator, Ghulam Husain. Some people who were hiding behind the rocks waved at us to go to them. We thought they were local Mujahideen. I was the first to reach and discovered thai they were Russian soldiers. Twenty of them surrounded me. 1 was not armed and could not escape. Zahir, who was following me at a distance, did not see what happened to me was also captured. He was armed with a Kalashnikov. We pretended to be defectors but our story failed to convince them.
At night, they tied our hands and legs and stuffed a piece of rug in our mouths and pressed us between two boulders. We spent long harsh night.
The next day some groups of militiamen and regime soldiers came. They insulted us and even beat us, but our Russian captors stopped them. In the | evening we were taken to Qala-i-Surkh, the Soviet base in Jabulseraj, on a tank. In the base we were given a few pieces of dry bread and a glass of, water.
The next day interrogation start-!■ ed. I was taken to a large tent where p five officers were setting in a circle. Three soldiers who were experts in; martial arts started to beat me on the face, stomach, legs and all over the body. They wanted to extract information from me. We had decided not to tell them anything about the radio. But they had found a paper on me in which the expenditure of transportation of the jatteiy was written. They wanted to know what was the battery for. After one hour of beating I fell unconscious, la the afternoon I awakened and found that some of my ribs were broken and I was feeling pain all over my body.
We were taken to Bagram air base for further interrogation and then were handed over to KHAD, the regime secret police, which brought us to Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan.
We were taken to Panjshir to show them die Mujahideen's positions. In Rukha, they kept us for a few days. A barrage of mortar shells by the Mujahideen, one
morning, left many Soviet and regime officers killed and wounded. The demoralized regime troops returned to Anawa, the lower part of the valley . Here, our interrogation continued and we. were tortured occasionally.
After one week we were flown to Bagram and then to Kabul. KHAD armed guards took us to Shash Darak detention center in the city. After four months I was sentenced to 12 years and Zahir to IS years of jail.
I served five years in jail and then was taken into the regime army. After spending a few months in the army, I went to the Panjshir. 1 met Masood in Worsaj, Takhar Province, and he assigned me to a job in the communication department of the Supervisory Council.
Before coining to Panjshir in 1981,1 had spent two years in Bulgaria where I was trained as worker in food preservation.
After finishing high school, I was looking for job to support my family. I was among five hundred students sent to Bulgaria for what was called higher studies.
The two technicians of Radio Free Afghanistan Sher Agha (left) and Zahir (right).
In Bulgaria, we found that the program was vocational training. • The students boycotted the classes. After ten days the regime's ambassador came and captured eight students who were identified as students leaders and sent diem back to Afghanistan. The rest were threatened with similar action if they continued their strike.
After two years, it was decided to send all the students back to Kabul, except for ten people. The program was for three and a half years but due to tension between the students and teachers the term was shortened.
After a short stay in .Kabul I went to Panjshir to join the Mujahideen. I met with
Masood and offered my services to him. He told me to wait After two months, a portable radio transmitter was brought from Pakistan and I was assigned to work as a broadcaster. I received training from a Frenchman. A French support committee had donated the transmitter to the Mujahideen.
Our station was an FM set working with a battery. We either charged the battery in Panjshir using a generator, or took it to Jabulseraj, where electricity was available. We had a nightly transmission of 45 minutes, a half hour of which was in Persian and the remaining 15 minutes in Russian.
We were broadcasting from the top of the mountain at mouth of the valley to cover Shemali and Kabul. We knew that people in Kabul who had FM receivers could listen to our programs.
I should add that the radio operation was supervised by Mohammad Es’haq who made the program and looked after the whole program. Sher Agha, Jkramuddin, Zahir, Ghulam Husain and I were the field operators.
In the fifth offensive Sher Agha ' and Ikramuddin were killed in fighting against the Soviets, I and Zahir were captured and Ghulam'Husain lost his father. A big blow to a small team!
Five years of prison were difficult indeed. We had many problems. I may forget every other hardship but cannot forget the insult of the communist officers.
For those who had a desire to leant, prison was like faculty. We were taught by Islamic scholars who served prison terms. Prison officers transferred the teachers continuously from one room to to another to interrupt classes.
While the majority of prisoners belong to the Mujahideen there were a few Khalqis and Maoists who were also jailed by regime. They were kept away from the rest of the prisoners.
In prison, I was told an interesting story by Pahlawan Gulshah from Darwaz of Badakhshan. He was a strong man and this is why he was . called PaMawan, in Persian meaning wrestler. Soviet soldiers captured Gulshah and other 49 Mujahideen of Darwaz, close to the Soviet border, in 1979. The captured Mujahideen were killed except for Gulshah who had family relations with one of the local Soviet officers. He was handed over to the regime authorities who jailed him in Kabul Villages along the border are separated, by tiie river which makes the border. Before the occupation of the area by Russian, people in both sides had family relationships.
Gulshah showed his physical strength when he fought with five ward officers. Five officers, equipped with cables and iron bars, barely defeated him after an hour-long struggle. After being released, Gulshah went to his area to continue Jehad.