Terrorism endangers Jehad
The assassination of important resistance figures and attacks on relief agencies working for the Afghan refugees are designed to weaken Jehad and defame the Mujahideen parties.
Recently some resistance leaders have been assassinated by unknown men in Peshawar. Nasim Akhundzadah, a famous Mujahideen commander in Helmand and Prof. Khatibi from Jami'at Islami were among those killed.
The assassinations are carried out by highly organized gangs. The fact that no assassins have been caught so far shows that they are not the work of ordinary criminals.
There is a strong possibility that assassinations are carried out by agents of the Kabul regime. The regime has the organization, resources, trained manpower and experience to carry out highly organized terrorist actions. These actions serve the political aims of the Kabul regime. They create a law and order problem for Pakistan, and create anxiety and fear among the refugees. If not handled properly, terrorist actions could make some groups of the resistance suspicious about others, something that the regime is looking for.
There is also the possibility of involvement of a communist faction outside the Kabul regime in the assassinations. The group, formerly called Shola-i-Javid, is active against the resistance inside and outside Afghanistan. Shola-i-Javid promoted a Chinese style communist revolution in Afghanistan. Now they seem interested in return of Zahir Shah. They do not hide their enmity towards the Islamist parties in the resistance. Members of this organiztions were responsible for killing of the renowned Jami'at commander in Balkh, Zabihullah, some years ago. A splinter group of the former Shola-i-Javid is called SAMA and its members call themselves 'independent Mujahideen'.
Some power-hungry groups in the resistance might be also responsible for some of the violence.
Attacks against Shelter Now International, a Western relief organization helping the refugees, and armed robberies directed against other relief organizations, are new developments.	*
Attacks on the relief organizations are designed by the enemies of Jehad to isolate the Mujahideen internationally and make life difficult for the refugees. Attacks on relief organizations, under any pretext, divert the attention of the international community from the just cause of Afghans. It makes the international relief organizations reluctant to help in the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
As Jami'at leaders have said, there were no problems between the refugees and relief organizations which cound not have been solved through negotiations between the Mujahideen organizations and officials of the relief bodies.
Jami'at supported the AIG statement condemning the attack 'on relief organizations.
Provocative acts by unidentified people against women's schools run by Mujahideen organizations is a; deplorable development. These actions bring a bad name to the resistance. It gives substance to regime propaganda that the Muajahideen are against eduction. There is no obvious reason for the threats against the feiriale refugee students. In these schools women observe an Islamic dress code and most of the subjects taught are Islamic science.
Close cooperation between the Mujahideen organiztions and the security forces of‘Pakistan will prevent the attacks' success. Such cooperation has proved useful in the past and will help the security bodies of Pakistan tp identify terrorist elements and neutralize their actions.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 12, June 15,1990, page Q
17, 000 refugees to perform Hajj
More than 17,000 Afghan refugees living in Pakistan will go to Mecca to perform Hajj (pilgrimage) this year, the minister of Hajj of the AIG told MIDIA.
Hajj is one of the five pillars of Islamic faith. An adult Muslim who has the financial means has to perform Hajj at least once in his life.
Mawlawi Abdur Razaq said last year only 12,000 Afghan refugees visited Mecca. He said some other Afghans will be invited by the Saudi government and other Islamic organizations to perform Hajj, and are not included in the 17,000.
The Pakistan Government will provide travel documents for Afghan Hajjis, who will bear their own expenses.
They will fly to the Holy Land on special flights of Pakistan and Saudi Airlines. r
The minister of Hajj said arrangements for their accommodation have been made by his ministry with the help of the Saudi Government.
He said an AIG medical team will accompany the Afghan Hajjis.
Some of the Hajis come from inside Afghanistan. For example, about 200 Hajjis from the Supervisory Council have reached Peshawar.
Disputes between Iran and Saudi Arabia have kept the Afghan refugees living in Iran from performing Hajj. After the bloody incident of 1987 in Mecca involving Iranian Hajjis and Saudi security forces, Iran stopped sending Hajjis to Mecca. Afghans refugees living in Iran using Iranian travel documents and other facilities could not go either.
Before the communist coup in Afghanistan, Afghans used to go to the Holy Land by air and road. More than 20,000 people performed Hajj each year.
When the communists took power performing Hajj was discouraged, resulting in a considerable decrease in the number of Hajjis.
It is not known how many Hajjis will go from Kabul to the Holy Land this year. Najib, the head of the Kabul regime, has asked Hajjis from the areas controlled by the regime \o work for the 'nation reconciliation' program by inviting Afghan refugees performing Hajj to return to their country.