AFGHANews Vol7, No 18, September 15, 1991, page 0
................•; J nX | * j ;«u i ■-- *1 sf | %a f ftfjsr#
:	r".............. '	^
wmmi
Willi
fc
-	v"'	"51
&MNI I
Editorial
Negative symmetry helps Kabul
The Soviet Union and United States have agreed to cut supply of arms to the two sides of the Afghan conflict from the beginning of the next year. They have also agreed not to increase the present level of arms sent to their allies.
The agreement on*negative symmetry was reached in Moscow between the Foreign Ministers of the two countries. They termed it as a step towards achieving peace in Afghanistan.
Arms cut will give the Kabul regime an upper hand in the war against the Mujahideen consolidating the present status quo in Kabul.
The Kabul regime has received enormous amount of arms and ammunition from the Soviet Union. The Red Army left behind not only military installations but vast quantities of arms and ammunition. The Soviets continued to pour arms to Kabul through air and road after the withdrawal of their troops. According to American sources, Moscow sent $300 million worth of arms to Kabul each month. Arms shipment to Kabul still continues.
Gorbachev gave to Kabul new weapon systems after withdrawal of the Red Army from Afghanistan. The Kabul regime was provided with SCUD missiles, BM-27 rocket launchers and several brands of sophisticated jet fighters. Moscow have sent a large number of tanks and armored cars to Kabul.
The Mujahideen, on the other hand, have been facing shortages of arms and ammunition after the Soviet troops withdrawal Waning interest in Afghan conflict and miscalculations about of the supporters of the Mujahideen reduced level of assistance to the resistance. This led to a increased gap between the level of armament of the two sides.
It was logical for Americans to ask the Soviets to withdraw weapons of mass destruction they have delivered to Kabul. The withdrawal of SCUD missile, BM-27 rockets, jet fighters, gunship helicopters and advanced tanks is necessary to bring the level of armament of the two sides closer together. In-such a case arms embargo would not have had a negative effect on the resistance.
Afghans are also worried about compliance of Moscow by the agreement Moscow might continue to pump arms and ammunition across die border without being caught or criticized by the US. While the US intended to wash its hands from Afghanistan , Moscow have always been thinking about having a friendly regime in Kabul to protect its interest While US will abide by the agreement Moscow will struggle to protects puppets in Kabul through sending more arms and ammunition to them. It is easy for Moscow to cheat the world on Afghanistan because the West especially America, does not want to embarrass Gorbachev over the Afghan issue. Such an attitude has been exploited by Gorbachev in the past to support Najib without getting any blame for continued bloodshed in Afghanistan. Gorbachev will continue to do the same in the future and Americans will continue to forgive him.
The agreement does not ask for the withdrawal of thousands of Soviet military advisors helping the Kabul regime. Presence of more than 5,000 Soviet advisors in Kabul and in some other provinces is a clear violation of die spirit of the Geneva Accords which asks for the withdrawal of Soviet troops within a specific period. Soviet advisors fire SCUD missile and Soviet pilots fly bombing missions against the Mujahideen. Without withdrawal of these advisors no one will believe that Soviet interference in' Afghanistan has come to an end.
Soviets provides fuel that keeps running the war machine of the regime. More than 90% of the imported fuel from Moscow is used for military purposes. If Kabul does not have the fuel for its tanks and jets it cannot launch offensive against liberated areas. Fuel should have been included in the list of military items.
For the above reasons, the agreement in its current form will benefit Kabul.
It will prolong the war and cause more suffering for Afghans.
The assumption that arms embargo will lead to ceasefire and negotiations is not a well-thought conclusion. The majority of Afghan Mujahideen will not enter any deal with the Kabul regime.
Problems arising from cutting supplies to the Mujahideen will not cause panic among the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen have always had less weapons than the enemy. The key to success is the will to resist and commitment to the cause. There is a strong will to fight against communists and there are enough people to fight.
Stoppage of arms from outside has the advantage of limiting the outside influence among the Mujahideen. This will give them freedom of action.
The Mujahideen can overcome the problem of shortage of weapons and supplies by economizing on the use of ammunition and paying more attention to training of their men and improving their organization.
As in the past the brave Mujahideen can capture enough supplies from the demoralized army of the puppet regime.
Regime celebrates Ptishtunistan Day
■■■■■■Pwas i'
HBgust3i in Kabul ipation of the ranking officers of the] |i§ol regime.f"
The governments of Afghanistan! used to cclebraje;;!3!th of Augnst as a I day of soUdar^: widt Fushtuns and Baiuches of Palqstan.	:|i I
" C^ebmtim-:0f Pu^^t^|<iay began during die rule of the |l|tief j king. Even otthat time,	fipsts
took active part in celeb|^^^p»e|
o^apj|Bihe past mistakes of the Icommunist party, the communists in Kabuli say a word against iTaraki, Amin and Sour Revolution. They do not admit committing of
sist on playing a loading role in die &