AFGHANews Vol 5, No 9, May 1,1989, page @
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Comr. Mullah Shams
Shamsuddin, known as Mullah Shams was bom 35 years ago in the provincial capital of Baghlan province. His father, Mustafa Qul, escaped to Afghanistan as a small boy from Bukhara in Central Asia along with his family. "1 belong to a family which has felt the atrocities of the Russians in Bukhara. 1 still remember die horrible stories my grandfather told me regarding the crimes committed by the Red army when Bukhara was invaded many years ago," said Commander Mullah Shams, who came to Peshawar recently for treatment of his wounds.
Mullah Shams, an Uzbak by origin, studied the basics of Islam and Holy Quran for four years in a private madrasa (religious school) and then due to his family's economic problems started to help his father and brothers in a 12 Jerib ( approx 6 acres) piece of land they possessed.
"Life was difficult at the beginning, but we all worked very hard, and opened a small shop which in the latter stages became a small productive business," Mullah Shams said. "Our economic condition improved. I started again to go to the neatest mosque and learn the basics of my religion".
When communists took power in Afghanistan, Mullah Shams was 23 years old, a young businessman possessing about 60 cows, providing milk to the sugar factory in Baghlan city." I knew thatTaraki was a communist and I was totally against comr munism. 11 told my brother Abdul Rahman that I should join those who ate against the communist regime."
Mullah Shams joined the Hezb -Islami group in the area. He stayed for some time with Hezb-Islami group and then came to Peshawar.
nl Joined Jami'at Islami Afghanistan and went to establish my own base in the city of Baghlan. We were about 25 people when I established my first base in the city. By that time the regime
had confiscated all my property and imprisoned my brother and some other relatives," recalled Mullah Shams.
Mullah Shams became very famous in the city of Baghlan. He was living in the liberated part of the city. "Our tactic was to attack the security posts of the government at night That was die source of our weapons too. We ambushed the convoys of the regime passing the area. We also contacted government forces to persuade them to defect Whenever there was any pressure from the regime we used to retreat to the suburbs," said Mullah Shams.
Of his operations he mentioned three operations in 1983, 84 and 86 as being the most successful ones.
"In 1983 we ambushed a convoy of die Russians on the main road in which 68 tanks and armored cars were destroyed and at least 400 Russian and DRA soldiers were killed. In the summer of 1986 when the Soviets launched a big offensive to destroy the bases of Mujahideen in and around the city of Baghlan, we fought for two days. 47 tanks and armored cars of the enemy were destroyed and about 350 Russians were wounded or killed.
"We lost about 100 Mujahideen and 150 civilians in the battle,” said Mullah Shams.
Mullah Shams played an important role in capturing Nahrin garrison in 1986. He has been a member of the Supervisory Council of North right from the beginning. Commander Masood is one of his admirers. Once commando' Masood said: "The capture of Nahrin garrison, without Mullah Shams would have been difficult." Mullah Shams keeps good relations with some commanders of Hezb-Islami such as commander Ghayoor and Mamoor Bashir. '
He also enjoys good relations with commanders of Nasser group of Shia sect. He believes that the Supervisory Council of the North is capable of capturing the main cities in die North and has also the mechanism to run a good administration in those cities.
He believes that some political understanding between different parties as well as coordinated military action would guarantee the fall of the provincial capitals. He said that lack of ammunition and effective weapons would delay the fall of die main cities.
He is a brave and frank commander. He says what he thinks without considering its political repercussions. He is a good Buzkashi player and is the father of six children.
They have no home to celebrate 'Eid'