.	_________________________ AFGHANews ypl 6, No 14, July 15,1990, page ®
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander B az Mohammad Ahmadi
Baz Mohammad Ahmadi, a batta- from different provinces. The new The SC which faced tremendous prob-lion commander of the Supervisory force became known as the Central lems because of long and risky supply Council's( SC) army, is famous for his Units. Mujahideen who joined the force routes to Pakistan had decided to open achievements in the battlefield and were given political and military train- a shorter road by wiping out an enemy good manners.	ing. They were supposed to become garrison in Kuran, Badakhshan.
The two recent operations in officers of a regular army which was Ahmadi was part of a group who were which he participated were, the capture to be created later. Ahmadi started assigned to attack the garrison head-of Taliqan the provincial capital of work as the cultural head of One of the quarters. They captured their target in Takhar Province and fighting for the units but he was not happy dealing a daring action, control of KhwajaGhar District.	with cultural affairs, instead he wanted Before joining the SC, Ahmadi
The city of Taliqan was liberated to concentrate on fighting.	worked as an organizer of Jami'at un-
by local Mujahideen in the summer of Commander Ahmad Shah Masood derground cells in the city of. Kabul. 1988. Enemy troops took position in who took part in the training of the Ahmadi stayed in Dost Mohammad Baghi Zak'hira at the edge of the city. Central Units impressed Ahmadi. He Umarie’s base in Bagrami District, They had the support of an armed was convinced that he had come to the Kabul Province, for three years. He group belonging to SAZA, a commu- right place for Jehad and became opti- contacted the Mujahideen inside the nist faction locally known as Setam-i- mistic about the future.	city, gave them instructions and provid-
Milli. The leader of SAZA, Kori Mali, The first military operation ed them with their needs. He also played a double game. He had contact- Ahmadi participated in after joining the fought alongside the local Mujahideen, ed the Mujahideen to negotiate terms SC was an attack on the regime posts in He was not satisfied with his work of surrender and at the same time he Shashan side-valley of Andarab District iu Kabul. The needs of urban cells were was in contact with the regime to pro- at the beginning of 1985 . The not provided easily and there was also tect himself from the Mujahideen Mujahideen suffered heavy losses at lack of a strategy in the urban warfare attack.	the start Five Mujahideen were killed oi the Mujahideen. His work in the
The SC, led by Ahmad Shah and several were wounded including city was affected by the annual migra-Masood, was aware of the design of the commander of the Mujahideen, tory habits of the Mujahideen around SAZA. Ahmadi was a member of ne- Heavy casualties caused the Kabul. Most of the Mujahideen used to gotiating team with SAZA. While vis- Mujahideen to panic.- Ahmadi took retreat to the mild Winter of Peshawar iting the SXZA base to negotiate he command and blew up a post After each year giving die enemy enough gathered information about the base five hours of fighting they won the time to consolidate its defense and even defense system. When the. talks broke battle.	capture new areas before their return in
SAZA was attacked and defeated by Some months after the Andarab the Spring.
the Mujahideen. The information gath- victory, the Soviet troops attacked the Commander Ahmadi’s involve-
ered by Ahmadi contributed to the vie- SC Khailab Base' using helibome ment in urban activities of Jami at goes
tory. He also took part in the attack, troops. Since the attack was launched hack to the time when he was a student
Some days later the regime garrison in during the Muslim festival of Eid, of the Faculty of Agriculture of the
Taliqan also fell and the provincial most of the Mujahideen had gone to Kabul University.
center of Takhar was totally liberated. visit their families. The limited number Being a member of Jami at he got
At the end of 1989, the Kabul re- of Mujahideen fought well and involved in anti-regime and anti-Soviet
gime recaptured Khwaja Ghar, a town Ahmadi was one of the commanders activities. The demonstration of the
about 40 kilometers north of Taliqan. taking part in the fighting. The enemy Kabul University students against the
It was the first step towards recaptur- retreated after loosing three helicopters Soviet occupation on 27 April 1980
ine the provincial capital of Takhar.	and tens of soldiers including a ranking led to Ahmadi’s arrest. The day coin-
g The Mujahideen planned a	officer.	cided with the anniversary of the corn-
phased attack on Khaia Ghar. It was. in-	When the SC decided to capture a munist coup of 1978. Several thousand
tended to capture strategic security number of selected garrisons in the people joined the students and marched
posts before capturing the. town, north, it counted on the Central Units, towards the city. When they had
Ahmadi conducted the attack. He cap- Ahmadi, by then, had been promoted to reached close to the old city, the regime
tured seven posts and was injured at the command of one of the units. The security forces attacked them. About
the end of the operation.	first target was Farkhar garrison. 700 students were captured. After two
Ahmadi joined the SC in 1984. Ahmadi’s group captured the posts as- weeks they were released except for 33
Ghulam Mohammad Aryanpoor, the signed to it, but he was wounded in that people who were accused of organizing
Mujahideen commander in Keshm operation.	the demonstration. Ahmadi was one of
Valley who personally knew Ahmadi Because of his injury he could not them. He was .released six months :
persuaded him to return to his native take part in fighting for the capture of later.
valley.	Nahrin garrison at the end of the same The communist regime arrest
After seven months staying with year.	Ahmadi again after some months. This
Aryanpoor in Keshm during which he The third garrison the Mujahideen time he remained in prison for three helped Aryanpoor, Ahmadi joined the captured in 1986 was Kalafgan . The months during which he was tortured Central Units of the $C.	Mujahideen won the war in a few with electric shocks and beating. When
When Masood founded the iSC he hours. Ahmadi led his group in that op- released, he left the country, felt the need to form an elite force eration as a reserve force.
irom educated-Mujahideen coming A major victory was yet to come.	Turn	to page ( 4 )