AFGIIANews Vol 8, No 15, August 1,1992, page ©
Dear editor,
It was a real pleasure to get your letter of June 7 from Kabul. We arc seeing history being made as AFGHANews moves from Peshawar to Kabul. May Allah bless you and those with you.
Insha’allah I hope lo be in Kabul on August 4 or 5. 1 will try to call you from Pakistan. I will need your help to move around and to interview President Rabbani and Defense Minister Masood.
I hope to get enough photos and interviews lo -write an entire book on the new Islamic Afghanistan.
Can you possibly make arrangements for me to visit Tajikistan for one day? I am willing to pay for the transportation.
Kaukab Siddique,
Kingsville, MD
USA
Dear editor,
I pray for martyrs of Islam and wish a long and prosperous life for all the Mujahideen, especially Ahmad Shah Masood.
I congratulate the workers of AFGHANews for the victory of the Islamic revolution. I am so happy that the leader of Jami’ai is the president of the country and AFGHANews, for which I used to work, is being published from beloved Kabul.
Ahmad Ehsan Amani
Kimbcrling, CA
USA
Dear editor.
Thank you so much for your recent letter. You have no idea how happy your letter made me feel. Please know that I join you in your happiness.
I have been following ihe stones in the.newspapers here. I was happy to read that Prof. Rabbani will follow Mr. Mujaddidi as the nation's leader. Prof. Rabbani and Jami'at Islam i has been described very well in the US newspapers.
I hope that someday I can bring my sons to Afghanistan, especially the Panjshcr Valley.
I am very happy that you and your family arc finally able to "come home." I was also happy to know that Akram is well. I remember him and you and the nice picnic we had in Paghmnu one
year after your classes had ended.
Please know that you, your family, and all the people of Afghanistan continue to be in my daily prayers. Please continue to write and send your high quality newspaper. It is truly a professional publication.
Paul Williams
Holbrook MA
USA
Dear editor,
1 am in receipt of the most recent AFGHANews Vol. 8 No. 12 dated June 15. I wish to continue as a subscriber and would appreciate you advising me when to renew iL
News of events in Afghanistan and, in particular, in Kabul sounds quite grim. It is difficult to imagine the power struggle which is taking place. The price is far too high as the "war" drags on and on. My heart bleeds for the victims and for the lost generations of children who have no knowledge or memories of Afghanistan whatsoever. I pray (in my own way) for a rational resolution and soon, before it is really loo late.
1 wish to compliment you and your publication for the very high standard set and lo express the hope for the continuation of AFGHANews.
Mrs. J. Hcringman
Dorset - England
Dear editor,
I hope you are fine and that my letter w'ill find you in the best of health. I saw in AFGHANews that its address has been changed. Thanks to Allah all things are happening smoothly. When I saw Prof. Mujaddidi decided to prolong his term as interim president, I was afraid how Commander Masood would tackle the problem and what would be the future of agreement among Mujahideen leaders. But Allah helped you all. There was no more bloodshed. Now I can hope the leadership council under Prof. Rabbani will be able to establish peace and stability all over Afghanistan.
There is lack of information about the situation of Afghanistan. You should have a plan to publish a Bangla news bulletin from your embassy in Dhaka.
Dr. Wahiduzzaman
Dhaka - Bangladesh
Secui^^ Kabul seized chore tha»?:®8di bottles of liquor; in Qabel	bast	of	die	city	-	of
smuggled; toPakistant After estab~
in tlaS®	sale	and
transport of alcoholic drinks were
lifted!	U.::; •If £ I.
The Indian ambassador to Kabul handed 12 tonnes of dry milk over to the Foreign Ministry of Islamic Slate otf Afghanistan on Jply 17* |;
According to a source of the ministry, a further consignment of 66 tonnes of Indian food will reach Kabul in th&near
The ^^^atici|| of Afghan reft* gees living in Germany donated sixteen tons:-of medicine to the Health Ministry Of Afghanistan on J uly 17 The medicine was collectedfrom pri? vate companies in Germany.
fill f^is^nMUi;providc automobile Islamic State of ilAitghahisi^ was stated after the meeting between a Pakistani diplomat and the| acting Transport! Minister Mohammad Khalil Zohad, •tin Jllty '1 % C;Y.:
; - the House Construction Factory July 22 in Kabul: Sopped • working' to lack of construction material several months ago; This state-owned fac-toryiiasthe airniial capacity building! 500 houses; T-;	-::: >£
-	7
F; ThelCRC Chief in Frank; Lador has said that