
RFOHflH MEttS UBL.'U, Hfl. 1,      2/1/1988, PflGE   2
 Mujahideen put up resisais.ee as long as they tan afford to do bo and withdraw when, it i$tactically necessary. So far the Mujahideen have done a brilliant job, mors than one can expect from theta. If the Mujahideen handle the propaganda side of the war properly, they will win the war is both military and political ffeats.
      NEWS
  i
                                      FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS
                                           FARYA8 PROVI MCE
 3/12/1987: in a well-planned large scale operation carried out by the Mujahideen under the command of Ssyed Yousuf against the enemy, the Mujahideen attacked the city of Maimana from two flanks (South sad East). The main target was a central prison, which was immediately captured fey the Mujahideen who broke into it and released over 900 people most of whom political prisoners.
 Following their operation, Mujahideen directed the attacks against the posts in the security belts around the city and captured them within hours of fighting.
 About £5 Russian-DEA soldiers were killed and 11 others were injured in the course of fighting is the city in addition to 9 soldiers who were captured alive.
 The report adds that Mujahideen were able to shoot down 3 enemy jet fighters which crashed in. Koc-hi Diana. Zsrgar Khaaa and Afghan Root areas situated in the Northern part of Maimana city,
 An unknown number of heavy and light weapons were seised from tbs enemy forces the report said.
 According to another reliable report from Faryab, in continuation of the fight in that province. Mujahideen have lost a great commander and Russians have suffered heavy
 casualties,
 Commander Yar Mohammad, who’played an important role in capturing half of the Maimana city and releasing the prisoners, was martyred near Darband (located about 111 kilometers Southwest of Maimana city) on december 11,1987.
 After Yar Mohammad s group and other Mujahideen entered the Maimana city at the end of November and the beginning of December, Russians brought more troops from