AFGHANews Vol 7, No 4, February 15, 1991, page ©
People of Faryab support Jehad despite harsh living conditions
Following is summary of the ob-I servations made by Qazi Mohammad I Nazif about the situation in Faryab Province. The interview was published in the January issue of Messaq-i-Khoon. a monthly journal published by I Jami'at Islami:
Drought and sunnpests have I caused reduction in farm products. Prices of food commodities have gone high. In Badghis, the neighboring province, about 30,000 people were forced to take refuge in other places because of famine. Steps have been taken to bring the harmful insects under control. Insecticide was brought from Peshawar and also provided by the UN . It is hoped that continuous spray will re-| duce the threat of the insect.
For two years, the UN and some I other relief organizations based in Peshawar have been providing seeds and fertilizer to the people in Faryab and Badghis. But these supplies are not enough and good harvests depend on timely Tainfall. Agricultural land in I Faryab is mainly rain-fed.
The majority of the people in I Faryab live in the province. Some people have been displaced within the province because of the war. In order 1 to improve the economic situation, the j Mujahideen have opened 12 new markets (bazaars) in the liberated areas where internal refugees find a place to work.
relieved Mujahideen were told to earn their living. Despite Financial problems and the enemy propaganda, the people of Faryab continue to support the Mujahideen.
The Mujahideen have opened 60 schools in the area , 42 schools by Jami'at Islami and 18 by Hezb Islami. All the Mujahideen parties cooperate with each other in the field of education.
Poor health care is one the major problems of Faryab.The people suffer from shortages of medicine and lack of qualified doctors. There are some clinics in Faryab, but the Mujahideen do not have proper hospitals to help the local people and treat the wounded Mujahideen.
The Kabul regime's national reconciliation program has failed to win the support of the people of Faryab. The Mujahideen control seven districts and four sub-districts of the province. The Kabul regime has limited presence in three districts and controls Maimana, the provincial capital. The Kabul re gime tries to weaken the resistance in three ways:
I Exploiting differences between the Mujahideen parties.
I Taking advantage of the poor ec onomic condition of the people. In the areas where the regime has a presence, it pays high salaries to some landlords
Teheran donates money to Kabul
The Iranian Embassy in Kabul i landed over a cheque of 2,000,000 Afghanis to the regime's Red Crescent Society for the victims of floods in southwestern Afghanistan, Radio Kabul reported.
Iran also had given assistance to the Kabul regime's Red Crescent on several other occasions. After the UN, Iran is the first country to respond to the call of Najib far assistance.
The previous symbolic donations of Iran to the Kabul regime were sharply criticized by the Mujahideen. Some people see these gestures as a sign of wanning relations between Kabul and Tehran which the Iranians do not admit publicly.
Najibullah, the head of the Kabul regime, has sent a congratulatory message to Iranian president Hashemi Rafsanjani on the occasion of 12th anniversary of the Islamic Revolution in Iran.
The message starts with the name of God and ends with a prayer for bet ter relations between Iran and Afghanistan for the sake of peace in the region. Najib address the Iranian President as 'esteemed brother’. .
The Mujahideen used to collect and corrupt religious figures and orga-
taxes from the local people to meet their needs. This gave the Kabul regime leverage to wage a propaganda war against the Mujahideen and ac-| cuse them of living off the poor people.
In order to remove some pressure I from the people, the Mujahideen decided to reduce the number of their armed men and close some of their bases. The
nizes them in fatherland front These people preach that the regime wants to help the people but the Mujahideen oppose it
I The Kabul regime wants to create ethnic differences between people, local communist faction promotes itself as the champion of the cause of Uzbeks and Tajiks.
— - -- - - - -- - - -- <
(Help earthquake victims in Afghanistan!
Ahmad Shah Masood has asked Islamic countries, friendly nations, humanitarian organizations and UN agencies to give urgent aid to victims of the devastating earthquake which hit northeast Afghanistan on February 2.
After a decade of suffering at the hand of the Soviets, natural disaster has killed and wounded hundreds of people and their livestock and has left hundreds of people homeless in the middle of an extremely harsh winter. They also face shortages of food, warm clothes and medicine.
Afghans are brave and have exceptional power to endure difficulties, but among them are vulnerable groups. like women, children and old people who need help urgently.
You can send your donations to these needy people through:
HeCp us publish
wqrtkHpws!
Tftast send your donations to the foCUmhng account number:
TEMW Account 9fp. 735-37 Jfabib “Banl^Ltd
‘T+CP/if <Unfn fPrch/ir/nr