AFGHANews Vol7, No 8, April 15,1991, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Mohammad Daud Zalali
Mohammad Daud Zalali, 33, has served as a commander under Ahmad Shah Masood, training and organizing Masood's followers outside the Panjsher Valley.
Daud was bom into a Pushtu-speaking Arab family in Beland Ghar village of Behsud, Jalalabad. His father, Meher Ali Khan , was an officer in the Afghan army.
Daud finished primary school and high school in Jalalabad. He was a second year student of the Faculty of Economics of the Kabul University before becoming a refugee.
Daud's father was jailed for five years by President Daud on charges of having a hand in an attempt to topple the Afghan government. He was released two months before the communists took over in 1978. and after the coup prepared to go into exile.
Daud migrated to Peshawar, Pakistan, along with his family in 1982. In exile, he listened to the radio to get information about the situation in Afghanistan. He heard many stories about the fighting in Panjshir and the way the Mujahideen had organized themselves. He was impressed by Commander Masood's way of fighting the Soviet invaders.
He wanted to join Masood and fight for the liberation of his country. Lieutenant Tahir Khan, who worked in the military Committee of Jami'at Islami Afghanistan and had met with Commander Masood, introduced Daud to one of Masood's brothers, Ahmad Zia, who gave Daud an introduction letter to take to Masood.
Daud left for Panjshir in 1984 via the Nooristan route. It took him 14 hard days to reach the valley, half of which was occupied by the Soviets. Two days after Dadd's arrival, the Soviets launched the 9th offensive against the valley. Commander Masood was in the lower part of Panjshir.
At the end of the attack, he met with Masood in Safidcher, a village in the upper part of the valley. After welcoming him, Masood asked Daud about the purpose of his trip. Daud said he had come to fight against the Soviets.
He spent about one year with Commander Masood serving as one of his bodyguards. In the meantime, he participated in many operations against the enemy posts around Pushghoor garrison.
When Masood formed the Central Units of the Supervisory Council,
Mohammd Daud Zalali
Daud joined the force. Mujahideen from Panjshir, Kabul, Logar and North joined the force.
Daud recalls the first years of stay in Panjshir as very useful. Most of the Mujahideen in his unit woe experienced . Their friendly behavior made Daud to forget the agony of being away from his family and comfort of Peshawar. "This was the place I wanted to be," Daud recalled.
Daud served in die third Central Unit commanded by Muslim. He took part in Nahreen operation commanding a 107 mm rocket launcher. He also took part in/the capture of Kalafgan garrison.
Daud spent six months in Salang in 1985 with rest of his friends. They launched many attacks against the Soviet and regime convoys in Salang.
Towards the end of 1985, he attended a training course in Namak Aab, taught by Commander Masood. Before that, he had attended some other training classes and had learned basic military tactics. In the same year he was promoted to the post of deputy commander of the 3rd Unit
One year later the Mujahideen of this unit were transferred to other Central Units so that new Mujahideen could benefit from their experiences. Daud became the commander of the 1st Unit.
He then was assigned to reorganize and train SC Mujahideen in Laghman , Tagab and Nijrab, East of Panjshir. In Nijrab, he trained 60 Mujahideen in the use of heavy weapons., In Tagab, he taught two training courses, one for three months and another for 6 months, and trained a total of 100 men in infantry tactics, organizational management and use of heavy weapons. He limited his activities to the border of Tagab and Laghman because relations between local Hezb and
Jami'at Mujahideen were very tense. Masood had told Daud not involve himself in local politics.
In 1988, Masood and Tariq agreed that a Unit of the Central force be sent to Laghman for training and reorganization Of Jami'at Mujahideen. Daud was assigned the job but before his departure. Commander Tariq was killed by Hezb men, and Daud cancelled his trip. After spending one year in the area, Daud and his Mujahideen were summoned to Panjshir: He took part in meeting of commanders from north Of Kabul, Parwan and Kapisa provinces.
Masood decided to dissolve the central forces in the Army which he was planning to create. Daud wanted to get leave to visit his family and to seek treatment for arthritis, which was worsening day by day. He came to Peshawar one year ago. Meanwhile he volunteered to work for Masood to broaden his contacts with commanders' from other parts of Afghanistan, especially the East and South.
Daud described the years of his Jehad as very useful. He studied Islamic books and learned to excel in reading the Holy Quran. He was taught by a Kurdish scholar, Abu Aasim Mohammad, who was later martyred in fighting with communists in Andarab, Baghlan. Daud said the Mujahideen in his Unit read the Holy Quran the most, becanse they were in action most of the time and their chances of being martyred were so great.
Daud recalls an incident during Jehad which he describes as a miracle, not easy to explain by simple logic:
About 80 Mujahideen captured 500 enemy soldiers including 12 high ranking officers in Pushghoor in 1985. Daud was in charge of keeping the captured officers. When he told the officers about the number of Mujahideen who attacked the base, they simply did not believe him.
One month after the fall of Pushghoor Soviets launched an attack to rescue the prisoners., A large number of Mujahideen, including Cmdr. Masood, hundreds of civilians and the prisoners were surrounded by the Red Army commandos in the narrow side valley of Mokoni. The enemy bombed the valley heavily, mined the escape routes from air and captured the strategic peaks on both sides of the valley. The main problem was the evacuation of old men, women and children. One day after the attack started, Masood prepared to break the siege and open a