AKillANcws Vol 8, No 15, August 1, 1992, page ©
Lack of security forces Sikhs to leave Kabul
Violence against Sikhs and Hindus in Kabul has forced a great number of them to sell their belongings and leave the country. About 30 percent of Cabul’s 50,000 families of Sikhs and ' liridus have already left for India. •
Hindus and Sikhs enjoyed a relatively comfortable life in Afghanistan. There was no hostility between them and the local people.'They enjoyed a better economic life than the majority of Afghans and were mainly involved in trade.
After the fall of the Kabul regime a large number of armed Mujahideen poured into Kabul. Enforcing law and order became difficult. Hindus and Sikhs became targets of crime and violence because of their wealth. Criminal elements freed from jail along with people who served in the communist regime’s armed forces indulged in violent actions against ordinary Sikhs and Hindus.
Although they were hardly the only victims of criminal elements, they started to leave the country in great numbers because they belonged to a religious minority group.
The Indian Embassy in Kabul has asked the Islamic government to protect Hindu, and Sikh communities which have beerna target of attack and looting by some criminal elements.
In his speech to the nation, Prof. Rabbani promised to protect the lives and property of members of the Sikh
Kabul clashes
|~~ From page (1)
Secretary-General of the. Afghan Red Crescent Society to prepare a report about casualties and material losses caused by this pointless conflict.
and Hindu communities. Other officials of the govern me nt, including Ahmad Shah Masood, Lhe defense minister, assured the Sikhs and Hindus of government's protection but providing security in a city of more than two million people in the presence of tens of thousands of armed men is not an easy job.
Two Indian political parties, one Sikh and one Hindu, have asked the Indian government to evacuate their coreligionists from Kabul.
Each day many Sikhs and Hindus queue in front of the Indian Embassy in Kabul for Indian visas.
The Islamic government is obliged under Sharia law to protect property and honor of all its citizens, including religious minorities.
It is hoped that with the gradual restoration of law and order in Kabul, they will stop leaving the country, and that even those who have gone will return.
Many Afghan Hindus and Sikhs sympathized with the Mujahideen in their struggle against the pro-Moscow regime in Kabul.
India has said it will send food and medical supplies to Afghanistan. An Indian External Affairs Ministry spokesman said on May 15 his country would send $500,000 worth of food and urgent supplies to the new government in Afghanistan, adding that 150 tonnes of essential commodities would go immediately. India has also worked out an arrangement with Kazakhstan for the supply of 50,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan. New Delhi has urged the new republic to expedite the transport of the foodstuffs to help the people of Afghanistan, the spokesman said.
The use of tight
’I can see in the dark,1 boasted Nasruddin one day in the teahouse. ,
’If that is so, why do wc sometime I see you carrying a light through the streets?'
Only to prevent other people from colliding with me.’
Prudence
Nasruddin was invited to a wedding feast. The last time he had been to that house, someone had carried off his sandals. Now, instead of leaving them at the door, he stuffed them into the inner pocket of his coat.
What book is that in your pocket?' his host asked him.
Tie may be after my shoes,' thought Nasruddin; 'besides - I have a reputation as a learned man to keep up.’ Aloud he said: The subject of the bulge that you see is "Prudence"/
How interesting! Which bookshop did you get it from?'
As a matter of fact, I got it from a shoemaker/
Fixed ideas
'How old are you Nasruddin?’
'’Forty*
’But you said the same last time asked you, two years ago!’
Yes, I always stand by what I
have said.'
Some leaders of the parties involved in fighting paid visits to hospitals to express sympathy with the victims of the tragedy, and distributed cash for the victims in front of the TV cameras. Only politics can describe these contradictory gestures.
The two parties involved in fighting also indulged in kidnapping each others’ supporters.
The people in Kabul, who were used to the leadership style of the previous regime, expected the defense ministry to employ force to end the tragedy. But the defense minister believes that these incidents are of political nature and can be dealt with more quickly and effectively through political means.
!	/	M-'f
The Prophet (Peace be upon /
ah oath, and they hurried for it|| The Prophet ord^redltilalldfe a
should be drawn amongstfhe~~
W

alto #lro:-wiiuId'tiKe ariother
88K

$ S-ggft
rnmm

	
111 , j®tB mmMk teMmm


m