AFGHANews Vol 7, No 10, May 15,1991, page 0
Obituaries
Commander Sayyed Allauddin
Commander Sayyed Allauddin, Jami'at commander in the center of Faryab, was martyred during an operation against the Kabul regime in Shireen Tagab District on April 19.
Sayyed Allauddin led about 300 Mujahideen. He was famous for his fearless operations against the regime forces.
The following were some of his actions:
•Karwan Bashi post, which was protected by 300 enemy troops, was captured in 1989. In the operation 22 enemy troops were killed. Six Mujahideen were killed.
•In the same year, Deh Maida post was captured; 32 communists died and 12 were wounded. Seven Mujahideen lost their lives in the attack..
•Deh Azizan post was captured in 1988. Twelve soldiers were captured and 14 guns seized in the operation. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
Allauddin started his armed struggle with his cousin Sayyed Noor Mohammad Hashimi. When Hashimi was martyred in 1984, Allauddin took his place. Although he was not of Hashimi's caliber, he maintained the standard of his work and managed to protect his organization.
Allauddin was famous for his courage in the battlefield and his Islamic character. He treated his Mujahideen and the people with affection, but he was a fierce enemy of the communists.
A close friend said Allauddin was hampered by a lack of higher education which prevented him from planning in advance and conducting a war of sophisticated strategy. He could, howev-
■ ■	'>x;
Moalim Mohammad Kazim
Moalim Mir Mohammad Kazim, 40, Jami'at commander in Shashan valley of Andarab, was gunned down by an ex-militiaman on March 26 in his native village. He led about 200 armed Mujahideen.
Commander Kazim was one of the few people who started armed struggle against the communist regime in 1979 in Andarab.
When Juma Khan, Hezb-i-Islami commander in Andarab, joined the Soviets in 1984 , Kazim was one of the few Mujahideen who continued armed struggle against him.
When the Soviets left Andarab, the militia groups defected to different Mujahideen . A group of militiamen headed by Liqa surrendered to Kazim.
Kazim was a graduate of Darul-
• Sayyed Allauddin (Top) Moalim Kazim(Bottom)
er, have been described as a good tactician.
Allauddin learned the basics of Islam in the mosque school of his village. At the age of seven he went to primary school. He stopped attending school after four years and started to work with his cousin as a shopkeeper.
Sayyed Allauddin was bom 32 years ago in Kohi Khana, a suburb of Maimana. His father, Sayyed Ebrahim, was a Qari (one who has memorized Holy Quran). He was married and has left behind one child.
Moalimeen of Kunduz (a teacher training school) and served for many years as a teacher in Khenjan, Andrab and Nahrin districts of Baghlan.
Kazim was bom in a Tajik family in Mir Ghazi village of Shashan. His father, Mir Mohammad Akram, was a farmer. He completed primary and secondary schools in Shashan.
Moalim Kazim was a well-known person in Andarab, Nahrin, Panjshir and Khost because of his frequent visits to these areas to take part in Jehad or to discuss Mujahideen's problem with Cmdr. Masood and Abdul Hay Haqjo.
Moalim Kazim had a good reputation for his resiliancc against the enemy and good manners. He had lost two of his brothers in fighting against the communist. He has left behind six children.
? Hashmat K&ftain,regime's Ambassador to North Korea and former head of the political section of KHAD, has sought political asylum from Canada i^veramenf|ll|'r ‘III
Km ham reached Canada with his family and driver without having a yisa||^||ii|han community in Canada has asked Canadian authorities ’not to grant asylum to Kaihani because he has been involved in committing atrocities against the resistance^';-i?
•••
Mawlawt Younus Kbalis, the interior minister of AIG, has resigned from bis post. His party, however, continue to remain in the AlG.
Khalis said he resigned because other Mujahideen leaders did not t^opemte to	strong.
Kabul TV showed gatherings of people in mosques to pray for the departed souls of the defenders of Khost. Many Sikhs and Hindus were ^te^mg::i|e mosques. :lp. pay for ’martyrs' of regime. It is
Hindus attend-a mosques to pray for a communists who defy religi6h. The event highlights the contradictions surrounding politics of the Kabul regime.
•••
The end ofRamactlian, broughtito an end wearing of head dress by fe-rn^e hewscasters of Kabul TV. As it was predicted, the new dress code was a temporary measure to appease
during rite holy month of Ramadhan.| I Islam recommend Muslim women to covet their heads in public. ■■■[
JdPsbanese ttqops dispersed a^sitl lin by Afghan refugees at tbe Bewit [office of the United Nations High ICornmissh for l(UNHCR).
hour protest on April 24. Hie [Afghans said rite UN agency had

Hh|
An Afghan couple were killed when the roof of their bouse fell oft] them at Ghari $hcr Ahmed near Bannu ofRW.FJP.on Apnl29. j