AFGBAHe** Volt Ho8, April 15,1988, Pegs3
Film review__________
Massoud:
Portrait d un chef afghan
confirmed by Fazluiiah, the Chief Jamiat Commander in Logar province South of Kabul.
 Kabul
     THE MUJAHIDEEN from Jaml'at exploded a bomb in the modern part of the city of Kabul as a result of which 11 persons including seven Russians were killed and more than 10 cars were destroyed.
   The bomb which went off at noon on March 28, was a four-kilogram explosive planted in a car belonging to a high-ranking government official.
   Another bomb also exploded in a shop used by the regime secret police in the same part of the city but no details were available.
 Jegdalik front
     THREE tanks and one armoured car were set on fire and 1$ Russian soldiers were killed and ten others wounded when the Mujahideen attacked a Russian supply convoy going from Kabul to Jalalabad In Tangi Abreshlmi on March 28, 1988.
   As a result of fighting the highway was blocked for one day.
 Parwan
    A DRA military convoy which was trying to rescue a besieged garrison in Ghoorband was attacked by the Mujahideen on March 28. 1988. Forty enemy soldiers were killed and ten tanks and trucks were destroyed.
   The enemy's advance was checked In Chinar Dara area Thw Mujahideen from Jamiat and Hezb took part in the attack. Jamiat lost one man and two other Mujahideen were injured.
    CHRISTOPHE de Ponfillys documentary on Commander Massood is a well-directed one which gives a good picture of Massood s life and his achievements in organizing a relatively effective resistance force in the North,
    The director has traveled three times into Afghanistan to complete his documentary. A8 he himself admits it is not easy to cover Afghanistan. "It needs a tough cameraman to cover that tough land", he said. For Christophe such a trip meant a walk of hundreds of kilometers across the Hindu Kush. Christophe is right because the height of the lowest pass on the way to Panjshir is not less than dOOO meter.
    in Vietnam journalists travelled by helicopter, in Lebanon, journalists used balconies of the hotels to film the war. ’But in Afghanistan you have to go on foot or on horse to do the job", said Christophe in his film.
    Although this portrait says little about the personal life of Massood. it shows him well enough as a Mujahideen Commander.
    He shows his Mujahideen (Muslim freedom fighters), his training camps, his bases, his central units and his general ability to organize the war.
     Christophe follows Massood from his original base in Panjshir to the North of the Hindukush. He explains his military operations, particularly the last three which resulted in government garrisons being
captured by Mujahideen from Jamiat.
   Christophe talks in his documentary about Massood's new political Initiative, the Supervisory Council of the North (SCN) as a positive development in Jehad.
   He films the civilian plight in the areas where Massood works. He also shows how an Innocent child, wounded by a Russian toy mine, is dying in front of his camera. He shows the beauty ol the Panjshir valley in his first trip in 1981 and shows it when it has been totally destroyed by repeated Russian bombardments. He shows in his documentary faith, courage, atrocities, organization and hope combined together.
   His documentary is not just Massood's portrait but can be considered as a portrait of the North as well.
                                               League supports Afghans
   MUSLIM World League has said that the Mujahideen must form an integral part of any settlement,
  In a statement issued by the 9th General Assembly of the Muslim World League, the total and unconditional withdrawal of Soviet forces has been demanded.
   At the end of four-day congress, it was stated that Afghans should be allowed to determine their future.