flFGHFH reus VOL. HI, NO.5, lf'V 1997 PAGE 5
 price in blood and in tears for its determination.
 The war has taken a heavy toll - about one million dead, a great number of wounded and crippled, four and a half million refugees, a country in ruins The U N. Human rights commission has repeatedly stated in its reports that the Soviet Union uses terror against the civilian population as a means of warfare
 Only the indifference and oblivion which surround this war make the systematic extermination of the Afghan people possible Although its outcome is still open, it may already be said that it will not only depend upon the Afghans military resistance, but also upon the support - moral and political- which they will get from world public opinion
 The Soviet Union s image in the world will greatly influence the success or failure ol* its global, international policy Poles living in their country as well as abroad should participate in the creation of a massive anti-Soviet protest movement. Widespread and full information about Soviet crimes and about the situation in Afghanistan could serve as a precious aid to this people in arms, as well as an efficient means of counteracting the spread of Soviet influence
 Moreover, the war in Afghanistan is a direct polish concern. Although in our own country we are forced to adopt a policy of tactical compromises with the Soviet Union, our support of the Afghans would testify to the high esteem in which we hold their struggle for values that we share and prove our readiness to confirm this in practice.
 A weakening of the Soviet Union lies in our national interest. The large-scale balance of political power in the world is changing. Wherever these changes concern the Soviet Union they also involve the future destiny of Poland, and we must have an active part in them.
 Our political difficulties and the problems which confront the Polish opposition should not isolate Poles from questions of world policy, nor should they limit our activity to exclusively internal affairs The fact that we concentrate upon our own problems may restrict our field of vision and make it difficult to perceive the real conflicts upon which our future depends.
 Whether the Polish question will be present in the consciousness of world public opinion will depend upon the stand taken by Poles on questions concerning the future order of the world. Solidarnosc still functions as the meaningful symbol of an ideal. Its influence will continue to be felt only if - in the name of both "Solidarnosc" and of solidarity, we go beyond our internal concerns and speak out for those who are oppressed in the same measure as we are, or even more so Severely tried by our recent history, we have the moral right, even the obligation, to insist upon the inalienable dignity of individuals and of nations, upon the value of their strife for freedom and sovereignty and to say what we know about the nature of communism and its methods of oppression
 In the struggle of tke Afghan people, Poles perceive such values as courage and determination values without which the "free world" is often helpless in its battle against totalitarianism
 Afghans are enduring enormous sacrifices in their battle against communist atheism, in the name of freedom and of faith- values which the secularized West is not always able to comprehend
 We are therefore united by the common belief that our acts here on earth are reflected on a higher plane, in the laws dictated by our religion.
 Various reasons - humanitarian, political and religious ones should cause us to view the struggle of the Afghan people with understanding and with respect, and to express our support and solidarity with the Afghans in more concrete form.