AFGHANews Vol 6, No5, March 1,1990, page Q
Ex-king may prefer remaining in exile over than ruling a devastated country
By: Habibur Rahaman
The recent meeting of the ex-king with the Italian President and Prime Minister of Italy indicates the importance some Western countries attach to his possible role in bringing peace to Afghanistan.	v
The role of Zahir Shah as a peacemaker has always been discussed in Afghan and diplomatic circles, but lately he has been the center of attention.
The main reason for this development is the lack of Mujahideen progress in the battlefield and political differences among them.
The Soviet Union sent a delegation in 1988 to meet the ex-king in Italy. The move was a divisive tactic to weaken the resistance. The same Russian delegation had earlier talked to the Mujahideen based seperately in Pakistan and Iran.
The United States send an official envoy to meet him openly last year. But meanwhile US officials have said that they do not support a specific person.
Before the Malta summit, the Soviet foreign minister visited the ex-king in Italy and discussed with him the situation in Afghanistan. The Soviet Union and the Kabul regime have been saying that they see a positive role in Zahir Shah in bringing peace to Afghanistan. But so far they have not hinted at offering him any specific role. The ex-king has rejected power-sharing with the Kabul regime which seems a wise decision.
As far as the Afghans are concerned they are divided over his future role. The majority of Afghan Mujahideen parties have openly expressed their opposition to Zahir Shah's return while some parties (earlier called moderates) either have had close contacts with him or have not opposed his possible return.
Among the Afghans who have supported Zahir Shah have been some Mujahideen from Kandahar province. These Mujahideen are affiliated with Pir Gailani who does not hide his friendship with the ex-monarch.
Other moderate parties who did not oppose the return of the king are part of the AIG but recently they have not made references to this subject.
Those who oppose the return of the king, justify their stand on ideological grounds and think that supporting his return contradicts the aim of Jehad which is to establish an Islamic government. They hold the ex-king responsi-
J
ble for die influence of the Soviet Union in Afghanistan.
There are some factors which work in favor of the ex-king while others put him in a difficult position.
He is a recognized figure both in Afghanistan and outside the country. Neither Afghans nor outsiders associate him with the horrible situation that the communist leaders created in Afghanistan.
Lack of unity among the Mujahideen leaders and absence of a dominating figure in the resistance camp has put Zahir Shah in a good position.
For the outsiders (including the Soviet Union and West) he is a moderate person who would be prefered over the present Mujahideen leadership who had fought against die Soviet Union, and work for the creation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
It is natural that the secular elements, leftist intellectuals and some tribal leaders favor his return, but for different reasons.
There are many problems in his way which makes his chances of success very narrow. He will be opposed by the Islamists in the Afghan resistance which are well armed and organized. So far these groups (including some effective field commanders) have not hidden their opposition to his return.
The other problem is the lack of an organization to work for him. The creation of such an organization needs enough trained manpower and, more importantly time, which might not be available.
Zahir Shah's personality is also an hindrance. He is accused of being a weak person who is afraid to face challenges. A war-tom country with so many contesting groups requires a strong leader who should face the challenges with courage and determination. So far he has been waiting for the two super powers to give him a green light and for all Afghans unanimously to ask him to return- something which might not happen.
The ex-king's supporters call themselves nationalists to distinguish themselves from the Islamists who are called fundamentalists. But it would be wrong to think that the king was a real national leader returning to his people after 18 years in exile to inspire them for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
Like many leaders of third world countries he was ruling the people without sharing their way of life. His food, house, clothes, associates, literature and habits were different from 95% of the people of Afghanistan.
On the top of it all, 11 years of war has changed Afghan society so much that he will rind it very different After 18 years he might rind Afghanistan difficult to control especially when there are not enough close friends and an effective organization to assist him.
As long as the present stalemate prevails in the political and military fronts of Afghanistan, Zahir Shah's return will be subject for discussion.
Ex-king offered executive role
The Regime's foreign minister, Abdul Wakil, completed a four day visit to India during which he talked to Indian leaders about the situation in Afghanistan and the expansion of cooperation between the two countries.
Mr. Wakil arrived in New Delhi on 13 February and held talks with the foreign minister, prime minister and officials of commerce and defense.
During his meeting with the Indian foreign minister he expressed support for New Delhi's position on the Kashmir issue.
India has remained a close trade partner of the Kabul regime, during the years of occupation and since then.
India has shown concern about what they call' Islamic fundamentalism' in Afghanistan.
India also resents the close link of the Mujahideen with Pakistan which provided support for them during the long years of occupation because of its rivalry with Pakistan.
India despite being a big country has wrongly supported Moscow's expansionist policies in Afghanistan and Cambodia.
Mr. Wakil met with journalists in India and talked to them about "the executive rule of Zahir Shah" a coalition government . He did not elaborate about the executive role of the king.
India favors the return of the ex-king but because of its pro-Soviet line that country can not play the role of a peacemaker.