AFGHANews Vpl 7, No 7, April 1,1991, page 0
Obituaries
Sayyed Rasool
Sayyed Rasool, 45, the former General Director of Radio Department of AIG, was killed by a parcel bomb in Kulangar District, Logar Province, on March 21, MEDIA reported.
The bomb was concealed in a book which was sent to him as gift. The book was given to a local shopkeeper by an unknown person to be given to him. When he opened the parcel the bomb went off.
Sayyed Rasool had resigned from his job in AIG about nine months ago and went to Kulangar to lead his.group of Mujahideen.
He played an active role in the 12-year Jehad of the Afghans against the Russians and the communist regime.
Sayyed Rasool was studying Political Science in India when the communists took power in. Kabul. He 1 left his studies incomplete and joined the Mujahideen. He served in various positions in Jami'at Islami Afghanistan. For a while, he served as the editor of "Mujahid", the official party organ. He has written many books and articles. Lastly, he served as the head of the Radio Department of AIG.
Mr. Sayyed Rasool was active in the armed struggle as well. A group of Mujahideen in Kulangar supported him. He was elected head of the Mujahideen council of Kulangar about six months ago. It is believed thatr KHAD planned his assassination using a new method never used before against the Mujahideen.
Sayyed Rasool has left behind a widow, four minor sons and two daughters.
Cmdr. Sanaullah
Sanaullah, 28, the commander of a heavy-weapons unit of the Supervisory Council (SC) was killed in action in Takhar Province on March 1.
Cmdr. Sanaullah finished his primary and secondary studies in Kabul and came to Peshawar in 1981. After graduation from the military academy of Jami'at he started to work as an instructor in the same school.
Sanaullah went to the North in 1985 to take part in Jehad in the ranks of the SC. Before being appointed the commander of one of the heavy weapon units of the army of the SC, he served as the organizer of various seminars and also in the logistics section of the army.
Sanaullah was bom in Qala-i-Beland village of Bagram District, Parwan Province. He belonged to a re-
-W ■

. (Top) Sayyed Rasool.( Bottom) Sanaullah.
spectable family. His father, Mawlawi Sebghatullah, had served as a judge in Balkh, Jawzjan and other provinces. His grandfather, Mawlawi Abdul Ghani, known as the Mawlawi of Qala-i-Beland, was a great Islamic scholar of his time.
Sanaullah has five brothers. He was not married.
Ibrahim Kandahari
Mohammad Ibrahim Kandahari, 75, a senior Afghan citizen and the former head of the State Publishing Department of Afghanistan, died of heartattack in Paris on March 11.
Kandahari was visiting Paris on the way from Peshawar to Washington when he died. He lived in the US as a refugee. His body was flown to Washington for burial
Among ordinary Afghans, Kandahari was more famous for his astrological skills rather than his publishing services.
Youth seminar
j A three-day seminar, discussing the role of youth in the future of Afghanistan, ended on March 9 in Islamabad.
In the seminar, organized jointly by the Institute of Policy Studies (Islamabad) and the Islamic Cultural Center (Peshawar), about 400 Afghan youths took part. They were mainly students of schools and colleges. Some Mujahideen leaders and Figures of Islamic movements from other countries spoke on the occasion. Youths belonging to Jami'at Islami Afghanistan participated in the seminar. The conference debated the role of Muslim youth in support of Jehad and the future of Afghanistan. The conference ended after passing a number of resolutions calling for the unity -of the Mujahideen and the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
Shalbi killed in N.Y.
Mustafa Shalbi, 42, the head of the Services Office for Mujahideen in New York, has been killed by unknown persons, an official of the Services Office reported in Peshawar.
He said Mustafa, an Egyptian, has been involved collecting funds for the Afghan Mujahideen for the last six years. The Services Office in Peshawar was headed by the late Abdullah Ezam, who was killed, along with his two sons, in bomb explosion in Peshawar in November 1989.
The Services officer said Mustafa might have been killed by supporters of Rabbi Meir Kahane, an extremist Zionist who was killed by unknown men in New York some time ago. Kahane's supporters suspected Mustafa's involvement in that incident
Envoy meets Shias
Nikolai Pazirov, a Soviet special envoy, has met with Hezb-i-Wahdat-i-Islami leaders in Teheran to discuss the Afghan issue. The details of the talks are hot available.
He said Iranian and Soviet views on Afghanistan are converging. This is the first meeting of a Mujahideen group with a Soviet envoy since November of 1988. The Mujahideen held several rounds of talks with Yuli Vorontsov, the than Soviet Ambassador to Kabul, before the withdrawal of the Soviet troops were completed. The talks failed to bring to the two sides together.