AFGHANews VoI5, No 2, January 15,1989, page 3
Mujaddidi becomes
Mujahideen's
spokesman
SEBGHATULLAH Mujaddidi assumed office as the current chairman of Afghan Mujahideen Alliance on January 1.
Prof- Mujaddidi who is the head of National Libration Front of Afghanistan replaced Prof. Rabbani.
Prof. Mujaddidi will lead the Alliance for three critical months. He has an important job of leading the Alliance delegation in the talks with the Soviets and taking steps to form an interim administration in the country.
Soviets are supposed to pull out their troops by February 15 and the Kabul regime is believed to fall when it has lost the direct support of the Red
Army. The major task in front of the Mujahideen is to create a broad-based interim government to run the country once the regime is forced out of power. Prof. Mujaddidi as the chairman of the Alliance can play a vital role in creation of such an organization.
Prof. Mujaddidi belongs to a spiritual family. He is an Islamic scholar with a record of anti-communist activities. He could be called a traditional leader relying on tribal bonds and family connections. His party, Jabha-i-Milli was formed in 1979 and compared to other parties in the Alliance, has limited military strength.
Let Soviets speak for themselves
By A.H. Mansoor
Soviets suffer from drug abuse
As it pulls its Army back from Afghanistan, the Soviet Union has come face to face with one of the more serious draw-backs to foreign intervention - many soldiers, the Soviet press reports — are returning addicted to heroin and other drugs.
The Govemment-run weekly, Literatumaya Gazeta, recently reported that Soviet soldiers took heroin and other drugs before going into battle against the anti-communist resistance forces. The information on drug abuse, the magazine reported, came from a survey of 3,000 students who had completed their service in Afghanistan.
According to Government figures
released earlier this year, Soviet drug
abuse has increased rapidly in the past
four years: The report revealed that
130,000 Soviet citizens were registered
users of illegal drugs. Of these, 52,000
were classified as addicts and 62 per
cent were under 30 years of age.
***
This is a guest article taken from the Muslim world weekly published by the Muslim World Congress of Pakistan in its December 31 edition.
Islamic Movement
From page (6)
cal agents of the regime helped by the local communist activists. Some of them were caiptured and later were executed.
A few months later most of the senior members of the movement like Ghulam Mohammad Niazi, Prof. Sayaf, Habib Rahman, Saifuddin Nasratyar, Omar and tens of others were jailed. The imprisonment and later the execution of these members were a severe blow to the Movement
Fortunately the the leader of the Movement, Prof. Rabbani, and some of its senior members had managed to avoid arrest and went to the Tribal areas to continue the struggle.
The movement had suffered the first set back with great losses but Daud and his communist friends had failed to crash it It started to prepare itself for the next round of confrontation which took place in August of 1975.
The story of the first armed encounter against the regime will be discussed in the next issue of Afghanews.
THE publicized predictions of Western intelligence and diplomatic sources about the Soviet plans in Afghanistan are helping the Soviet Union and hurting the cause of Afghans.
Some of these predictions have turned to be wrong but their announcement have decreased pressure out on the Soviets and has given false hope for peace in a country where fighting still continues.
The Soviet Union has committed itself to withdrawing its troops by February 15,1989.
In November it postponed withdrawal of its troops and so far has not announced resumption of troops withdrawal. The Soviet leaders have put as condition for troops withdrawal the progress in talks between the Mujahideen and the Soviets.
Any postponement or delay in troops withdrawal is a source of worry for Afghans and the peace-loving world and they take it seriously. But the behavior of some Western sources relieves pressure from the Soviets.
When Soviets announced postponement of troops withdrawal the US government sources called it a bluff. The same sources were saying the Soviets will complete withdrawal of their troops before the end of 1988 and will
not launch offensive attacks against the Mujahideen.
Developments in Afghanistan showed that these predictions were wrong. The Soviets not only did not withdraw their troops till the end of 1988, the withdrawal of their troops by February 15 has also become doubtful.
Press reports quoting State Department give the impression that the Soviet troops are planning to leave but Vorontsov refused to give a date for the withdrawal in the talks with the Mujahideen. He also linked troops withdrawal with the progress in the talks.
In a press conference held in Moscow on January 11, Soviet chief negotiator Mr. Vorontsov told the press that there is the danger that the Soviet Union will not take out its forces by February 15.
The prediction of Western sources decreases the public pressure on the Soviets and the world thinks that the war is over.
It is much safer to let the Soviet speak for themselves. The Soviets should not be helped by unnecessary comments based on intelligence source and satellite pictures. Let the aggressors pay the price of their illegal stay in Afghanistan.