

^j^Jt	<Jt)t	^y^i
smimmmmMmmmmmmmiM
s
Published fortnightly by Jam^at iSlhnii Afghanistan
Vol 5, No 2
January 15,1989
Islamabad talks on Afghanistan make no progress
THE second round of talks between the Mujahideen and the Soviet delegation ended without making progress in Islamabad on January 6.
The delegations met twice in the foreign Ministry of Pakistan and the talks continued for five hours.
The first round of talks were held' in Taif in Saudi Arabia on December 3-5. The Soviet envoy visited Mohammad Zahir, the ex-king, in Rome and later met a delegation of Iran-based Mujahideen parties in Tehran.
Reliable sources say that the Soviet envoy heard from the ex-king and the Mujahideen based in Iran similar things to what he had heard from the Alliance delegation in Taif.
The Mujahideen delegation was headed by Sebghatullah Mujaddidi, the current chairman of the Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen, and the Soviet delegation was led by Soviet Union First Deputy Foreign Minister, Yuri Vorontsov.
Other members of the Mujahideen's delegation were Sayed Ahmad Gailani, leader of NIFA, Mohammad Khalili, representative of eight party coalition based in Iran, Mr. Mohaqqeq of Islamic Unity party, Mohammad Es'h^q from Jamiat Islami and Abdul Qadir Karyab from Hezb Islami (Hekmatyar). The Soviet delegation had a new face in it. He was the Soviet Ambassador to Islamabad.
The talks continued in a calm atmosphere. Discussions were frank and each side listened to the views of the opposite side with care.
The Mujahideen side insisted on the transfer of power to the Mujahideen and completion of the withdrawal of Soviet troops as soon as possible.
The Soviet side insisted on ceasefire and beginning of talks between all Afghan groups (including PDPA) to find a solution to the. problem of Afghanistan .These views were rejected by the Mujahideen delegation and it was made clear to the Soviets that the
communist regime in Kabul can not play any role in the future political life of the country.
The Mujahideen delegation told the Soviet side about the arrangements made to form a representative council from all the cross sections of the Afghan society. The Soviet side said that they saw a positive substance in it.
The Soviet delegation repeated what they had said in Taif. They insisted on measures to end the conflict by accepting ceasefire. The Mujahideen side stated that unless the causes of the conflict, the presence of the Soviet troops and the communist regime in Kabul, have not been eliminated the war will continue. However, they repeated the earlier statement of the Mujahideen that the retreating Soviet troops will not be attacked.
MUJAHIDEEN will hold no further talks with the Soviets unless they abandon insistence on inclusion of the communist regime in the proposed broad-based government and the Soviet troops have not withdrawn from Afghanistan.
This decision of the Alliance was announced by Sebghatullah Mujaddidi, the current spokesman of the Alliance, in a press conference on January 9 in Islamabad.
Prof. Mujaddidi who led the Mujahideen's delegation in the Islamabad talks described the attitude of the Soviet delegation in Islamabad talks as negative. He said continuation of negotiation in such an atmosphere will not be productive.
Mohammad Karim Khalili, the spokesman of the coalition of the Mujahideen based in Iran, was also present in the press conference.
In a separate statement Prof.
In Taif Mr. Vorontsov repeatedly pointed to the existence of different groups among the resistance, like Peshawar-based Alliance, Teheran-based coalition and the supporters of the ex-king. In the Islamabad meeting he had lost this card because members of Iran-based Mujahideen parties were setting in front of him and also had returned empty-handed from Rome.
Yuri Vorontsov threatened the Mujahideen delegation that, if they did not accept the ceasefire, the world will hold them responsible for the bloodshed. i
Probably the Soviets will build on the same theme a propaganda offensive against the resistance.
Y uri Vorontsov repeatedly assured the Mujahideen that the Soviet Union
Turn to page (5 )
Rabbani, Jami'at Islami leader, has criticized the attitude of Yuri Vorontsov in the negotiation in Islamabad and his remarks in his press conferences..
Prof. Rabbani said that the Soviet envoy's statement that his country will continue to support the regime shows that Soviets are not for peace in Afghanistan.
Jam'i'at leader said that the international community should take notice of Vorontsov's threatening remarks.
Prof. Rabbani who led the Mujahideen delegation in the first round of talks in Taif said in his statement that a country which is responsible for killing of 1.5 million Afghans can not pretend to be a champion of peace and blame the Mujahideen for bloodshed.
"We believe our stand on ceasefire and the future of the puppet regime is just and reasonable. We can not compromise on these principle issues.", the statement reads.
Alliance sets conditions for future talks with Soviets