/
AFGHANews Vol6, No 10, May 15,1990, page O
set on fire. Gulab the deputy commander Sufi Saeed was killed in this operation.
2-	In the summer of 1980, the Soviets launched their second offensive against Panjshir. In Deh-Kalan of Shotol 50 Soviets were killed. The next day they launched another attack to take away the dead bodies of the soldiers and in hand to hand fighting more Russian soldiers were killed.
3-	During the fifth offensive of the Soviets against Panjshir in summer of 1982, the Mujahideen under the command of Sufi Saeed who operated in Salang destroyed 70 tanks and trucks of the enemy.
4-	Commander Saeed and Commander Panah attacked an enemy convoy in Salang prior to the seventh offensive setting on fire about 100 military vehicles.
5-	In 1987, when the first Soviet supply convoy was leaving Afghanistan, it was attacked by Shotol Mujahideen in Salang where 50 vehicles were destroyed.
6* In 1988, a DRA garrison in Glulbahar was	captured by his
Mujahideen.
On December 27,1988, he was injured when the truck he was driving hit a land mine in Shotol.
He came to Pakistan for medical treatment. Sufi Saeed has not found the time to marry and form a family.
Sufi Saeed is famous for his piety. He has full	control over his
Mujahideen and they behave in a disciplined manner.
Dear Mohammad Es'haq:
Please accept my best wishes for Eid. I look forward to reading your comments on this year's fast of Ramazan and on the celebration of Eid.
In your issue of April 1, Habibur Rahman criticized my reference to Buzkashi during my Congressional testimony. Perhaps you should include another well known Afghan proverb in your much appreciated feature on the subject: "Nim Mullah, Khater-e iman."
I don not believe that the war in Afghanistan, in which over a million people have been killed, is a game of any kind, including Buzkashi. In the written testimony I prepared for the Congressional hearing I never mentioned Buzkashi. Instead I wrote over fifty pages-mostly single-spaced- in which I tried to explain the very difficult and confusing environment to which Habibur Rahman refers.
Although the author corrects a statement I made about Buzkashi, he and I were trying to make exactly the same general point The reason I referred to Buzkashi in my oral testimony was that both the government witness (Assistant Secretary of State John Kelly) and one of the Congressmen (Rep. Lagomarsino) described the war in Afghanistan as an American football game. I thought that this was a big mistake, and I wanted to tell them that the
national game of Afghanistan was not American football but Buzkashi, which has very different and complicated rules.
What I wa!s trying to say was exactly what Habibur Rahman wrote: "Afghan politics has its own rules which must be understood. . . The foreign observers who watch the game from a distance, with a ready-made model in their mind, find Afghan politics confusing and sometimes frustrating. They often resort to oversimplification and unsuitable analogies.
. . . Afghans cannot simplify the rules of their political games in order to make them understandable to outsiders. A simplified model will provide no answers in such a complicated situation." I wish I had stated what I meant as clearly as he did.
Unfortunately, many people in our government are using just such simplified models to analyze events iii Afghanistan. If you would like, I would be honored to present to your readers my own views of the situation.
Please feel free to publish this letter or parts of it in AFGANews. Thank you again for such an informative anc well-written publication.
Sincerely yours,
Barnett R. Rubin
Gorbachev allows more Muslims to visit Mecca
Soviet Muslims achieved a major victory when the Soviet Government recently announced the charter of special flights to Saudi Arabia to carry Muslims performing Hajj.
After the communist revolution of 1917 Muslims and followers of other religion lost the freedom to practice their faiths. The pressures on Muslims were greater than on others, because of the size of the Muslim population in the Soviet Union, their ethnic ties with the neighboring countries and the nature of their religion, which is a complete code of life.
Muslims in Central Asia and the Caucasus had for many years fought against Russian domination and for the preservation of their religion and culture.
Despite the constitutional guarantees of freedom of religion in the
Soviet Union, the Communists gave little freedom to the people to practice their religion.
Hajj, the annual pilgrimage of able Muslims to the holy city of Mecca in Saudi Arabia, is a test of religious freedom in various countries. People from all over the world come to Mecca and it is known who and how many pilgrims arrive from each land. The Soviet Government used to send a few selected people each year to show that it has given freedom to the Muslims. But in fact the same people went year after year. According to a Saudi official, every year the same familiar faces came to perform Hajj.
Muslims are obliged to perform Hajj once in their lives if they can afford it.
Last year only three persons went to Mecca from Azerbaijan, which has a
Muslim population of about four million. This year 60 people have obtained permission to perform Hajj.
About 70 million Muslims live in the Soviet Union, mainly in Central Asia and north of Iran and Turkey.
The Soviets have also imposed restrictions (Mi the number of Holy Qurans and other religious books entering the Soviet Union. Central Asia once was a center of learning for Islamic studies.
While freedom for Muslims to perform their religious duties is a step forward, still Muslim worship in the Soviet Union is limited to certain rituals. Islam is a complete way of life. A Muslim must say regular prayers, fast during the holy month of Ramazan, perform Hajj, pay capital tax (Zakat) and a ten percent harvest tax.
__________________________________    J