AFGHANews Vol 8, No 16, August 15,1992, page ©
Saudis to boost Kabul mass communications
Saudi Arabia has agreed to provide funds for rebuilding Afghan Radio and TV, stated Mohammad	Seddique
Chakari, the minister of culture and Information of Afghanistan, after returning from a ten-day official visit to the kingdom.
Chakari visited Saudi Arabia at invitation of Shaikh Ali Shayer, the Saudi minister of information, from July 14 to 24.
Afghan Television,
Radio and the government press are facing tremendous problems due to jack of equipment. The TV and radio facilities need to be renewed and modernized. Due to overuse of its broadcasting equipment, Afghan radio is not audible in many provinces. The state printing house suffered losses in fighting during the first days of the Mujahideen's victory.
King Fahd has agreed to provide $33 million for buying equipment for TV, Radio, Afghan Films and the government press.
A Saudi delegation will visit Kabul to assess the needs of the information ministry, which will be followed by the visit of an Afghan delegation to finalize an agreement on cultural exchange.
Aziz Ary afar, the head of the military section of TV, Mr. Karwani, the financial and administrative head, and Enayatullah Khalil, the head of the Arabic section of TV and Radio, accompanied Chakari in his visit
The Afghan delegation visited Riyadh, Mecca, Medina, Jeddah and Abha, and talked to Saudi ulema and some Afghans living in that country. They also answered questions raised about the policies of the Islamic government	t	,
The minister of information and culture said: "Ulema in Saudi Arabia asked many questions about the Islamic nature of the government in Kabul. The propaganda war waged by Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar and supporters of Qazi Hussain Ahmad, Amir of Jamaat Islami of Pakistan, and negative, politically motivated media re-
ports sent by some Arab journalists had a negative affect on the views of people in' Saudi Arabia about the Islamic government"
But Chakari said that the government of Saudi Arabia expressed full support to Islamic government.
Her said the news of rocket attacks on Kabul was a source of wary for the Afghan community living in Saudi Arabia. Since telephone communication between Saudi Arabia and Afghanistan is extremely difficult, Afghans get the news of developments in their country through Western media, and hear the rumors spread by the opponents of the Islamic government, which are extremely negative, he said.
Chakari had earlier paid an official visit to Pakistan to seek Islamabad’s support in cultural activities. The government, of Pakistan agreed to provide TV programs fra Afghanistan and to repair the air-conditioning system of the TV archives.
Pakistan donated paper and ink worth of about 100 million Afghanis for the Afghan state printing house. Islamabad also agreed to process .film fra Afghan Films in its Lahore studios free of charge for one year. The two sides agreed to open their news agencies in Kabul and Islamabad.
Kabul agreed to allow distribution of the Wahdat newspaper, a Pakistani paper published in Pushtu, in Afghanistan.
Chakari, 30. attended Abu Hanifa high school in Kabul. He studied at the Faculty of Islamic Law in Saudi Arabia and got his masters' degree in the same field from the University of Punjab, Pakistan.
Chakari joined Jami'at Islami in 1975 when he was a student in Saudi Arabia. Chakari has visited America, UK, Australia, Turkey, Sudan, Egypt, Kuwait and Gulf States to speak fra die Mujahideen. He described his official visit to Saudi Arabia and Pakistan as successful.
As a result of Gulbuddin’s attack, TV transmitters were damaged.
Unity on
Gulbuddin's
terrorism
From page (4)
bloody war.
•	His attacks on civilians were meant to terrorize die population and incite them against the government.
•	His attacks stopped Nawaz Sharif s visit to Kabul and President Rabbani's visits to Teheran and Islamabad.
•	He targeted diplomatic missions to force the evacuation of foreign nationals and isolate the government internationally.
•	These misdeeds are without parallel in modem politics. Though the prime nlinister and a deputy defense minister belonged to Hezb, the party launched calculated attacks on government installations and civilian targets. The Prime Minister's offices became an intelligence-gathering point and an outpost for guiding rockets onto targets inside the city.
•	The government displayed remarkable restraint against the provocative actions by Hezb, and only used force when Hezb's actions exceeded all humane and moral limits. Such restraint was necessary to isolate Hezb and avoid misunderstanding between different sections ol the people on eth nic and regional lines.
•The Hezb demand that Genera Dostum's fordbs be Withdrawn from Kabul is a pretext for waging war to. seize power. Gulbuddin enjoys the support of men like Tanai, Pakteen Watanjar and others who were diehart communists and NajibulLah's supporters. Dostum, on the other hand, helped the Mujahideen overthrow the communists.
Contrary to Gulbuddin's claims the Khalqis have played a key role in directing Hezb attacks on Kabul. Moreover, Khalqi militiamen from Helmand guard Gulbuddin's family.
Finally there is no guarantee that Hezb would behave in a civilized way if its demands were met
The Leadership Council has approved the use of force against Hezb. The parties involved in the government should participate fully in the military campaign so that peace can be achieved in the shortest possible time.
Only decisive action, endorsed by all the Mujahideen parties, can defeat Hezb in the shortest possible time and ensure the return of peace to Kabul.