p...—----------- AEGHAffews	Vol	4,	No	16,	kxigust 15,1968, Page 6
j Pakistan shoots down | violating Soviet aircraft
1 A Soviet-made | Afghan aircraft which j had penetrated 15 kilometers into Pakistan air space was intercepted and shot down by the Pakistan air force over North Waziristan on August 4th,
The Pakistan's Defence Ministry has confirmed die report indicating that this ^sras the fourth \ aircraft shot down for [ violating Pakistani air space.
The incident happened
three days after a village was bombed by Soviet planes near ¥asiristan killing 17 people and injuring 27 others.
The Defence Ministry added that this was the first plane shot down after the | Geneva accords for which both Pakistan and Afghanistan pledged a committment to avoid any kinds of covert and overt interferance in the affairs of each other.
The incident coincided with the Communist regime s delivery of 60 protest notes to the United Nations Good Office Missions to Afghanistan and Pakistan fUNGOMAPi accusing
Pakistan of violating the accord which were categorically rejected by the Pakistan government. On the contrary, Pakistan by shooting down the intruding aircraft proves the Kabul regime s blatant violation of the Geneva accords and termed the regime's protests as vague propaganda with no practical proof.
Air space violation and bombing of Pakistan1* border areas started some times alter the Soviet invasion and has continued despite the Geneva accords. As a result, hundreds of Pakistani and Afghan refugees have been killed and their houses and tents destroyed.
Refugee-inhibited areas of Chitral district in the North and Parachinar in the North-West near the Afghan border are the main bombing targets.
Regime faces refusal into
SAARC
meeting
THE puppet regime, in a letter to the Secretary-General of the seven-nation South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation | (SAARC), has j requested the regime s [ admission into their S meeting.
Announcing the fifth meeting of the SAARC Council of Ministers, scheduled to he held on the 12th-13th of August at Kathmandu, the SAARC 1 Secretary General, Abu!
| Ahsan, said to the j journalists that the regime's request Is likely I to face- serious objections t because of the political
situation in Afghanistan.
The maj ori ty of the SAARC members opposed the Afghan regime’s admission on the grounds that Afghanistan is not a non-aligned country due to the presence and occupation of the Soviet ; Union.
India is the only member state advocating
the regime's admission to the SAARC and for that purpose an Indian envoy w&s send by Rajiv at the end of July to press for action on the issue. But. the Secretary General argued that
’Afghanistan's situation has not changed politically.H
SET ASIDE fRm Tka,t^ir,Mqv/ OIDxou UKf |VtUSIAM ?