AFGHANews Vol6, No 24, December 15,1990, page ©
Editorial
A
V
Support for commanders' efforts leads to victory
The people of Afghanistan want peace. They search for such a peace that will give them their freedom and restore the Islamic status and independence of their country. The major obstacle in the way of peace is the existence of the Kabul regime which was brought to power by the Red Army and which has survived because of the massive Soviet support The underestimation of the difficulties after the Soviet troops withdrawal by some Mujahideen leaders and their supporters also contributed to prolongation of the war.
Developments of the post withdrawal phase have been disappointing for the Afghan resistance and their supporters. This situation forced the political leaders and the field commanders to review their policy. The formation of the Council of Commanders was the result of a desire for change. The last meeting of commanders, held on the Badakhshan border, was attended by Commander Masood and the representative of Ismail Khan. Commanders were of the view that the time for small scale and sporadic actions had passed and the Mujahideen needed to coordinate their activities and prepare for large-scale operations. They also decided to improve the law and order situation in the liberated areas and provide security for the transportation lines of the Mujahideen. The commanders wisely left the major political decision to the leaders7 to prevent any unnecessary competition between commanders and leaders.
But this division of work should not result in ignoring the priorities of the military operations by the political leaaers. A major part of coordination of military operations deals with political understanding between the Mujahideen parties, an area where the political leaders cooperation is vital
Holding elections might divert attention from military activities to political issues. But the leaders should not forget that the Mujahideen's poor performance in the battlefield is the root of most of the difficulties. If the military performance of the Mujahideen does not improve their political efforts will not be successful.
The efforts to find a credible alternative for the Kabul regime deserve attention. But worry about the future should not consume all the resources of Jehad. Improved military performance should be the main purpose of the Mujahideen parties.
Some people predict the quick fall of the Kabul regime due to internal problems and a decrease in Soviet economic assistance to it While one cannot rule out such a possibility, it is not wise to abandon our military programs for reorganization and coordination in the hope for such a development Spending most of the time and energy about the shape of the future government and form of Loya Jirga will be a repetition of the mistakes the Resistance committed at the time of the Soviet troops withdrawal.
Military coordination helps political understanding. The more the Mujahideen cooperate in the battlefield, the closer they feel together.
The commanders meeting in October broke the ice and lifted many psychological barriers in the way of cooperation between the different fronts. This will help the formation of a representative political system to replace the Kabul regime once the time has come.
The Mujahideen leaders should support the efforts of commanders with every means at their disposal. The commanders initiative is a reflection on the need for Jehad and has come from the Mujahideen themselves. Support for the council of commanders is the most logical way leading to the victory of the Mujahideen over the Kabul regime.	'
Friends of Jehad should also support these efforts. Support for the command-
Tum topage (3 )
Nashinas a famous Afghan singer has defected to Pakistan.
Dr. Mohammad Sadiq Fitrat, known as Nashinas, told newsmen that his wife and three children crossed into Pakistan six months ago but his departure from Kabul was delayed for four months due to security reasons.
Nashinas, 55, saved as one of the directors of the Information Ministry of the Kabul regime before leaving Afghanistan. He saved as the press attache of the Kabul regime embassy in Moscow for four years;
He has received his Ph.D degree in Pushtu from Moscow University and can speak fluently in Russian, English and Urdu along with Pushtu and Persian, the official languages of Afghanistan.
Nashinas started to sing at a young age. He sang under name of Nashinas, meaning unknown, because his family did not approve his involvement in music. He became a famous singer of Pushtu, Persian and Urdu.
Nashinas has composed many songs in praise of the communist regime in Kabul in the past 12 years. Talking to VOA he said the he was un-da pressure from the Kabul regime to sing in praise of the revolution. "One day after the 1978 coup, I was taken to Radio Kabul by two armed men and was asked to sing in support of the revolution. Singing was not a problem, but to sing unda threat of force was difficult," he said. He claimed that he has never been a member of the communist party.
Nashinas told Pakistan Television that the Kabul regime was very weak due to internal differences. He said the people of Kabul were very much worried about their future.
He said the Kabul regime made propaganda that the Mujahideen did not welcome the defectors and treated them badly." 1 did not face any. The Mujahideen accepted me without any problem," he said.
Nashinas said he wanted to leave Afghanistan earlier but could not because he was closely watched by the regime's secret police and they kept his money in the bank to prevent his defection.
He has joined the National Islamic Front of Afghanistan led by Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gilani.