AFGHANews Vol7, No 19, October 1,1991, page (J
Editorial
J
UN report needs balancing
The UN special reporter on human rights in Afghanistan has embarked on a new mission to die region. He visited Pakistan and Kabul to collect Information about human rights situation. Ermacora has visited Iran in the past for the same purpose.
Ermacora has done a great job by drawing worid attention towards human right abuses by the Soviets and the communist regime in Kabul. His missions have contributed to the partial improvement of human rights situation.
His recent reports criticizes both the Kabul regime and some
Mujahideen group for violation of human rights-
While we agree with the general theme of his work, we feel that the Kabul regime propaganda and lack of activity on the part of Mujahideen to provide information to the UN reporter have had a negative affect on his reports.
While his reports criticize firing of a few rockets into the cities by some Mujahideen and point out few cases of killing of POWs by some Mujahideen groups, aerial bombing of civilians targets by the Kabul regime and firing of hundreds of SCUD missiles against the villages and towns are not reflected in his reports in the way they should be. More important, the release of thousands of regime soldiers by different Mujahideen groups are not reflected in the reports of the UN reporter. Mr. Ermacora might argue that he reports what he sees. While the Kabul regime reports every incident to the UN, the Mujahideen do not report the atrocities committed by Kabul against ordinary Afghans.
The situation can be corrected if the Mujahideen take an active part in providing information about violate of human rights and these informations are back the up by films photographs and documents.
An independent Afghan body could be formed to collect information about human right abuses. This body should work closesly with the UN reporter to keep him informed about the situation in Kabul and the liberated areas.
The Mujahideen should invite the UN reporter to visit specific locations in the liberated areas. He can see the affect of war on civilian population, talk to the released prisoners and to the local people. He also can visit the Mujahideen prisons and compare them with those of the Kabul. We believe that such a visit will expose the Kabul regime true nature improve the image of the Mujahideen which is dented by the negative reports about assassination and kidnapping of political opponents in exile and infighting inside the country. Such a visit would balance Dr. Ermacora's report on human rights situation in Afghanistan.
Senior Mujahideen commanders, who have established a civil administration in the liberated areas they control, can jakp the initiative to formally invite Dr. Ermacora to visit the liberated areas.
The UN reporter can drive or fly by helicopter or plane to die liberated areas. Evacuation of a UN wounded worker from Takhar by a special plane showed that such flights to the liberated areas are feasible and safe.
The visit by the UN reporter will help the world body to understand the situation in Afghanistan better. Such visits .will also force the puppet regime to refrain from launching attack against civilian targets and encourage the Mujahideen to keep human rights standards in view while treating their opponents .
Jami'at is ready to help the UN reporter to travel to the liberated areas and have first hand information about the situation there. It urge other Mujahideen parties to render their support to this proposal so that the Mujahideen cause is not by imbalance and negative reporting.
Afghanistan 1989 in Sociolinguistic perspective
byJadwigaPstrusinska Edited by Caroline Gray for Central Asian Survey, published by die Society for Central Asian Studies, Oxford/London. Polish ethnologist Jadwiga Pstrusinska, who did field research in the country in the 1970s and was based in Oxford during part of the 1980s, has written a provocative booklet which does not shrink from raising sensitive and important issues. This enquiry into contemporary Afghan society offers an academic and specifically linguistic perspective on • developments since 1978. Essentially it focuses on state power and Afghanistan's ethnic minorities.
Dr. Pstrusinska starts this booklet
is
a particularly sensitive one in multiethnic states. Her premise is that, "Afghanistan has neither linguistic nor ethnic cohesion, and has never been politically unified. Its surprising linguistic variety is a result of mainly geographic conditions, dramatic historical events and a tendency to amalgamate rather than assimilate.
The writer goes; no to state her case that, "what has unified this country, other than obvious factors such as common territory and religion, is its traditional thousand years old lingua franca and, to a lesser degree, both its official languages.
Afghanistan has been aptly called a museum of peoples, because its highly traditional society remained less touched than most in Asia by western imperialism or modernization. It has many tiny, remote rural communities with distinct languages or dialects. This very ethnic diversity made it in some respects an anthropologist's dreamworld.
The first-ever national census came very late, and was a casualty of the civil war which began after the Saur Revolution in 1978. This inevitably makes discussion and analysis of population figures a matter of informet guesswork and (more often) passionate argument, rather than scientific debate.
(I
To page (8)