HFBHR1 ttMS l'C(_. Ill, NO. 12, tS/fc/ 1907 PftGC6
 and the oil fields of the Gulf. Even if that were not the case, all the peace and justice loving countries and especially the Muslim ones — had the responsibility to oppose the Russian's barbaric invasion of a small, non-aligned Muslim country. The strong condemnation of the invasion by the conference of Islamic states at the outset of the invasion was encouraging.
 Although not much practical measures were taken to force the Russians and their puppets to end their atrocities ageinst the Afghan people, the Mujahideen enjoyed the moral and political support of most of the Muslim countries until recently.
 Iran's relative success in its var against Iraq and the Russian propaganda efforts to present a nev image has changed the picture since the conference of the heads of the Muslim states in Kuwait in January of this year. The Amir of Kuwait personally read Gorbachev's message to the conference, the conference reluctantly allowed the « Mujahideen representative to speak in the conference end only then at improper times, the conference passed the weakest resolution about Afghanistan ever, the UAE and Oman established diplomatic and economic relations with the Soviet Union, Dubai established airlink with the puppet regime in Kabul, Saudi Arabia initiated diplomatic * contacts with the communists in Russia. The general secretary of the OIC made several trips to Moscow, Kuwiet purchased more arms from Soviet Union. Kuwiat invited the Russian naval force to the Gulf, and the “prime Minister" of the Kabul puppet regime made a trip to Baghdad for an agreement on economic co-operation with Baghdad.
 One wonders why the Arab governments are falling into the trap of Russian intrigues. Are they so stupid as not to see that they are digging their own graves by "rearing the serpent in their sleeves” (as the Persian expression goes)? Have they forgotten the history of Russian expansionism in the central Asia? Hove they turned blind and do not see what the atheist Red Army is doing to their religious brothers in Afghanistan?
 Or have they lost their religious faith and human conscience and the Russian atrocities do not bother them anymore.
 The Gulf countries have no reason to believe Russia when it states that it wants to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan. If it is sincere in its claim, why does it not take any practical measures? Vhy dres it intensify its barbarism (as it has done in recent week)? why does it extend the wer to the Pakistani territory? Vhy does it not recognize the fact that its puppets cannot exist without its support while Mujahideen constitute the real power in Afghanistan ? If it is afraid of the fate of its egents. it could take them away along with it. Moreover, Mujahideen have announced a general amnesty. If it is afraid that Afghanistan will become an anti-Russian base. Mujahideen have proclaimed that their future government will be non-aligned and will not allow any foreign bases in the country.
 The Gulf countries do not have any reason to seek superpower's protection because they feel threatened by Iran either, Iranians have announced time and again that they do not have intentions to expand beyond their own borders. If the Gulf countries cannot believe the Iranians -- who are their Muslim brothers and have established a nev regime which cannot be accused of breaching its promises — how could they believe the imperialist superpowers whose history is replete with expansionism at any means — including lying and treachery — when they claim they bring forces to the Gulf only to keep it open for navigation ?
 The Iran-Iraq war has provided Russia with the golden opportunity to penetrate the Arab countries We believe this golden opportunity has not arisen by chance but has come about by design Ve believe Russia was influential in inciting Saddam Husain to attack Iran. We believe Russia (with some other countries) have been instrumental in the prolongation of the war Ve believe Russia (together with the other superpower and the 2ionists) have been influential in Greeting fear of Iran in Arabs’ mind. Russia did all these in order to divert the attention from its invasion in Afghanistan and its atrocities there. It also designed those plots in order to be able to gain influence in those Arab countries that it had failed by playing the Israeli card.
 The future stage of the Russian plot will include increased economic and military aid.