Vol 5, No 6	March	15,1989
Interim Government cabinet meets inside Afghanistan
Dr.Sakharov criticizes Soviet Airforce
The well-known Soviet dissident , Andri Sakharov, has said that the Soviet air force bombed and killed 30 Soviet soldiers in Afghanistan not to let them be captured by the Mujahideen.
He revealed this in Ottawa, Canada at beginning of March. He also said that Soviet Union lost 50,000 men in a useless war in Afghanistan.
Andri Sakharov was the first Soviet who opposed Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. He was banished from Moscow for his anti-war comments.
The commands of Soviet forces in Afghanistan rejected Sakharov's allegations.
The attack was directed against the enemy garrisons in Samar Khail, east of the city, the airport and around the city itself.
The Mujahideen captured Samar Khail garrison and took more than 200 prisoners. Fighting for the control of the other places still continues.
Jalalabad is the provincial capital of Ningarhar province located about 75 kilometers from the Pakistan border.
After the Soviet troops withdrawal from the province, the Mujahideen liberated all the districts and brought under control the road connecting Jalalabad to Pakistan through Toorkham.
Jalalabad is a fortified city and the troops, militiamen, KHAD units withdrawn from Kunar province and the districts of Ningarhar province have been
The first meeting of the cabinet of the Interim Government of Afghan Mujahideen was held inside Afghanistan and Saudi Arabia was the first country to recognize the Interim Government.
The meeting was held in Shiwa, Khost district of Paktia province, on March 10.
The meeting was presided over by Sibghatullah Mujaddidi, the President of the Interim Government
A group of the enemy officers and soldiers captured in the war was presented to the journalists. Among them was a 13- years old soldier who was captured and put into the army by force.
Casualties on berth sides are said to be heavy. Kabul regime has admitted losing a general in the fighting. The Mujahideen casualties reach more than 100 killed and more than 200 wounded. Most of these have been hit by bombs or land mines.
The Mujahideen use captured tanks against the enemy.
Lt General Abdul Haq Uloomi, the spokesman of the regime war council has admitted fierce fighting for control
Turn to page (3 )
Eighty six foreign and Afghan journalists reported the event. Mujaddidi called the fust meeting of the cabinet a historic happening.
He thanked Saudi Arabia for the recognition of the Mujahideen’s government and asked other coun tries to extend their recognition.
Prof. Sayyaf, the Prime Minister of the interim government introduced 14 ministers of his 28-member cabinet. The names of the ministers, their party affiliation and portfolios are:
Maulawi* Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi the chief of Harakat-e-Inqelabe Islami, Defense Minister; Mohammad Shah Fazli, Harakat, Minister of Scientific Research; Maulawi Islamuddin, Harakat, Minister of Agriculture; Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, leader of Hizb Islami, Foreign Minister; Ali Ansari, Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar), Minster of Frontiers; Qazi Najiullah, Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar), Minister of Justice; Younus Khalis the head of Hezb-i- Islami, Minister of Interior, Haji Dean Mohammad, Hezb Islami (Khalis), Minister of Natioinal Security; Maulawi Abdur Razaq, Hezb Islami (Khalis), Minister of Religious Affairs; Prof. Rabbani, Jami'at Islami leader. Minister of Reconstruction, Najibullah Lafraii, Jami'at Islami, Minister of Islamic guidance, Eshan Jan, Jami'at Islami, Minister of Mining and Industries; Ahmad Shah, Ittihad-e-Islami, Minister of Communications; Sayyed Nadir Khurram Jabha-e-Mili, Minister of Health. N1FA lead by Gailani has not introduced any ministers to the cabinet
The rest of the ministers will be chosen from Iran-based Mujahideen parties, good Muslims in Kabul and intellectuals who are living in exile.
Only nine ministers were present
Turn to page (3 )
fighting for Jalalabad control continues
The Mujahideen forces launched an offensive to liberate the city of JalalabadJn the fighting which started on March 7, more than four thousand Mujahideen belonging to different parties of the Mujahideen are taking part.
assigned to defend it