AFGHANews Vol 6, No 2, January 15,1990, page Q
w
gw® %

AFGii apn ews
PjCXBqx 264* Peshawar- Pakistan Tel: (0521) 41381

Editorial
Communists to be disqualified from Afghan politics in future
On the 25th anniversary of the formation of the communist ruling in Afghanistan, Dr. Najibullah has introduced changes in the ruling party's future program and name.
The leader of the Kabul regime has also proposed formation of a front of leftist groups to run the country. Najibullah is trying to prepare his party to run Afghanistan with the help of Other front organizations it has created under different names.
But the majority of Afghan people have rejected the rule of the communists, and ten years of war hve permanently disqualified the PDPA from playing any role in the future of Afghanistan.
The party came into existence because of deal between the Afghan royal fami-y and the Soviet Union. It seized power with help of the Soviets, by exploiting divisions between different individuals in the Royal family.
After assuming power, it unleashed unbridled violence against its potential enemies. When faced with popular resistance, the PDPA joined hands with the Soviet Union. For ten long years they killed more than a million Afghans, forced more than five million out of the country and destroyed 75% of the cities and towns.
With such a history how could PDPA dare to look Afghans in the eye and suggest running a peaceful Afghanistan, with the help of the country's other communist factions?
It is strange that Najib bases his argument for changes in his party program on the developments in Eastern Europe. The main theme of the uprising in Eastern Europe has been dismissal of the old dictators.
If the people in Eastern Europe kill some dictators, sack others and call for the end of communist party rule, how can the people of Afghanistan accept Najib as their future leader?
Ten years of war must have sent a clear message that Afghans will not reconcile with the Godless communists.
The communists in Afghanistan can only live in the shadow of Soviet supplied SCUD missiles and MiG-29 fighters. But Soviet aid has limits. The Soviets will soon tire of supporting Najib because they have many problems at home. Najib can not count on $400 million of Soviet aid per month for long: the Soviet Union cannot afford this for economic reasons.
PDPA has no role in the future of Afghanistan. Changes of name and program cannot deceive us. More than 100,000 guns of the Mujahideen will make sure that the dream of a communist government in Afghanistan will not come true.
Abdullah Ezam's invterview
From Page (6)
Afghans resent France's decision to re-open its embassy in Kabul
The Afghan Mujahideen disapprove the French Government’s decision to reopen its embassy in Kabul. The reasons given for the re-opening the embassy by the French authorities ard not convincing.
The Kabul regime has always argued that its diplomatic relations with a large number of non-communist countries is an indication of their indirect recognition of the Soviet-backed regime of Dr. Najibullah.
Most of those countries opposed the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, considered the Kabul regime illegal and supported the struggle of Afghans against it But they maintained diplomatic ties with the Kabul regime, displaying an obvious contradiction in their policies.
Turn to page (7 )
dered. Masood said they will be tried in an Islamic court. x
I was the first person to hear about the Farkhar incident I was sitting with Hikmatyar under a tree inside Afghanistan discussing the possibilities of him holding a meeting with Masood, so that if there were differences between the two they should be solved.
When Hikmatyar heard die news of the tragedy his face turned black with anger and said that he was ready to hand over Sayed Jamal and his brother who were Hezb members to a Sharia court
I asked Ahmad Shah Masood to leave Sayed Jamal alone at this critical moment and send Jus man to capture a city, but he said he was not able to do so because a lot of people were demanding that the culprits be captured and those killed were not members of his family or his close relatives. He said that the issue became more complicated when 40 Ulamas issued an Islamic verdict in favour of fighting against Jamal. Also they added that if Masood refused to fight the culprits he is not worthy of obedience. Therefore, their surrender and trial was the only way to calm down the grieved relatives of those were killed.
A committee was designated (by the Interim Government) to investigate the case and I was a member of that committee. The problem of Takhar ended, but the BBC and VOA called it a massacre in which 300 people were killed. The number of those killed was less than 15 people.
This was the story of Takhar which the western media talked about for 78 days with reports full of strange lies.
Jami'at condoles with People of Pakistan
The leadership and members of Jami'at Islami Afghanistan express their profound sympathy and condolence with the government and people of Pakistan and the families of those 300 people who lost their lives in a sad rail road accident near Sukkar on January 4. May Almighty Allah rest their souls with peace.
We also pray for the fast recovery of those brothers and sisters who were injured in the tragic accident