AFGHANews Vol 5, No 13, July 1, 1989, page @
Who's who in the Mujahideen
Comr. Mushtaq
Shamsulhaq known as Commander Mushtaq, 36, was bom in the village of Begtoot in Paghman district, Kabul province.
His father Mohammad Deen, Tajik, was a farmer in his village. Mushtaq completed his studies up to 12th grade in Paghman high school. Due to financial problems in his family, he was not able to attend Kabul University.
Mushtaq was active in school against the communists. When the communists took power in 1978 , they arrested him for some days. "The minute I was released I talked to some young people in Paghman and formed my small group," said Mushtaq.
He established his base in the Pashaee valley in Paghman and Mushtaq's small group of Mujahideen are still based in the same valley.
Mushtaq's brother, Ebrahim, is his deputy who stays mostly inside.
He is married and has three children.
Commander Fedaee
Commander	Mir
Mohammad Fedaee, was born 35 years ago in Koof, a small mountainous village in Darwaz district, Badakhshan province.
His father Qurban Mohammad, a Tajik , was a poor peasant. Amongst other poor villagers his family was the poorest.
Fedaee completed his primary school in his village and then studied Islamic subjects in different Madrassas( religious schools) in Badakhshan, Kunduz and Kabul. When the communist regime of Taraki was installed by the Soviets in 1978, Fedaee joined the Mujahideen in Takhar province. He stayed for two years in that province, learned to use weapons, participated in the operations against the enemy and worked in the cultural field for the Mujahideen.
It was in 1980 that Fedaee came to Pakistan and joined Jami’at Military Academy. In one year he graduated from the Academy and started to work there.
In 1982 he left Peshawar for Darwaz. In Darwaz he started to work as Qazi Ahmad's deputy and later in 1985 when Commander Qazi Ahmad was martyred, he became Jami'at chief administrator ( Amir) of Darwaz.
Darwaz is one of the most strategic areas in Afghanistan. It is surrounded by Soviet territory on three sides. Commander Fedaee along with other commanders such as Samiullah Qatra( the commander of Darwaz), Abdul Qadeer and Qazi Sarwar have worked to build an effective organization for the fighting against the Soviets.
Commander Fedaee has participated in many operations against the enemy of which the operations in 1980,1981 and 1987 are the most successful ones.
Commander Fedaee is welt re spected by the Mujahideen and the ci vilian population in Darwaz. He is married.
The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
From page (6)
The council of the new unity was under strong pressure from the Ulama, students of the religious schools, and former university students who were members of the Islamic Movement, They were impatiently waiting for the downfall of the communist regime. They thought as soon as the two wings of the Islamic Movement reunited, the regime should have collapsed. I found that view naive, however. I felt they lacked adequate understanding of the depth of differences' between the two wings of the Islamic Movement and of the resources that were required in order to topple the regime.
In response to those pressures, a committee consisting of die military officers who were members of the Islamic Movement was formed. The committee was supposed to design plans for Jihad activities. Because of economic problems, however, we could not Find a place to house the committee. Thus, the project failed to materialize.
Later on a Military Committee was formed. A number of military officers started work under the official supervision of Mawlawi Mohammadi but effective supervision of Qazi Amin. That committee also failed to design a successful plan due to the following factors:
1)	It lacked the required resources.
2)	No efforts were made to find out the whereabouts of the military officers who supported the Islamic Movement but still served in the Afghan Army.
3)	The leaders did not trust each other nor those in charge of the Military Committee.
4)	Some weapons and military equipment were with Eng. Hikmatyar. He denied, however, the fact that he was holding them and claimed he had distributed them among Mujahideen.
It should be noted that Eng.Hikmatyar was officially in charge of the Cultural Committee at that time. He did not relinquish military activities for one moment, however. Thus, he neither let the Military Committee do its job nor did he carry out his duties in the Cultural Committee properly.
It should also be noted that before the reunity with Hezb, Prof. Rabbani had taken part in the formation of Jabha Nijat Milli (National Liberation Front) in Mecca, Saudi Arabia. Members of Hezb Islami raised a lot of questions in regard to Jabha. Hikmatyar claimed that the former king and his cousin, General Abdul Wali were also members of Jabha. Prof. Rabbani rejected that allegation strongly. About his own relations to Jabha, Prof. Rabbani's posi-
tion was that he was a member in the council of the unity. He believed any relations between the unity and Jabha should take place through the council. If Jabha could become active and then the council voted in favor of coopera tion with it, there would not be any problem. But if the council voted against cooperation with Jabha once it had become active, then he would have to choose between the two. He would either leave Jabha and continue his activities in the unity; or he would leave the unity and join Jabha as an individual.
Regime Casualty figures misleads
The Kabul regime has is sued statistics, according to which about 1,800 of its soldiers have been killed during the past five months. These included 300 soldiers, killed during fighting for control of Jalalabad.
The report claims that more than 12,000 Mujahideen have been killed during these five months.
The figures are considerec highly exaggerated and misleading.