Af&HAKe^s Vol4, No 16, August 15.1988, Page2
n
« <.1. Jiff I '■ JJWPiX^WaiiqgWlI
Kxmduz
Khanabacf district
( captured
{
i
| ON the 7ih of August,
| the Mujahideen from jamiat j with the help of local units,
\ captured Kh&nahsd district, j taking prisoner 400 DRA j soldiers, seeing !0 tanks, 20 | trucks, i 0 ZPU guns and a | large quantity of food and \ ammunition, in addition an I unknown number of ! communication sets and j mortars were also captured, The fighting against the enemy forces, which were composed of KHAD, militiamen and Sarandoy {para-military units),- lasted I for two days which resulted in the complete fan of the district,
Khanatoad is a district of Kunduz province. It is an agricultural area situated on the main highway cf f Kunduz-Badakhshan, i
I
i Herat
i
j
| ON 25th July the i Mujahideen attacked militia | fortifications near Shindand area killing 20 militiamen, capturing 16 others with three off icers, seizing three Grinev machine guns, two [ Dschk and 70 K&lashiokov | rifles ,
I Eight Mujahideen were I kilted and 15 injured.
On the same day different ; units of Mujahideen jointly attacked DR A posts around the Shlndand district. As a result they destroyed four posts, took prisoner $5 soldiers including two officers and seized 30 K&i&shinfcov rifles, one ZPU and eight heavy machine guns,
®A group of Mujahideen clashed with the militia force in Pushtrood area on the 23rd of July. One OR A coaimander, with five soldiers, were killed and IS Kalashinkov rifles were captured by the Mujahideen,
One Muiahid was wounded hi the operation,
&fn a series of operations on DRA posts in Zinda Jan, j Qadis and arm near Shindand district, the Mujahideen took prisoner 25 soldiers, captured 35 Kaiashinkov rifles and destroyed five A PCs and two trucks.
On the same day the Mujahideen raided an out-post in Saraman area from which they captured five K&iashinfcov rifles, took prisoner eight sold ions and destroyed three vehicles.
Farah
THE Mujahideen ambushed an enemy convoy near SMmalgah village on 1$
July, destroying three APCs ^ and taking prisoner 10 soldiers from whom 12 Kaiashinkovs and two machine guns were seized.
zatmi
[
THE Mujahideen launched	j
an operation in the vicinity of	j
Azghandab district on 15	j
July, As a mult. 2ft DRA soldiers Including a sergeant	]
with 20 AK“47s, one rocket,	j
one communication set and	1
three pistols joined the	I
Mujahideen,	j
Three soldiers were killed	j
and others were wounded in	!
the fighting,	|
The nest day the	j
Mujahideen raided a security	|
post of Shahjooy district	j
taking prisoner one officer	j
with seven said iers. Three Mujahideen were injured in	;
the operatio
i
!
Qandahar	j
MOBILE units of Mujahideen ambushed a fuel convoy on the Kerat-Kandahar highway on the 12th of July, in the course of 3 hours of fighting, six oil-tankers were burned Mid two APCs escorting the convoy were destroyed.
Two days later, in a series of frequent air strikes and bombardments by the Russian planes on the Mujahideen positions in Charfcagb area, a large quantity of ammunition, and rocket shells of the Mujahideen were destroyed Some Mujahideen were also wounded in the air j raids,	j
Kabul
IN a joint operation on eight DRA security posts near Paghmaa en the i9th of July, the Mujahideen took prisoner 1 53 soldiers with three ! officers and seized 50