RFGHflH HEWS VOL.Ill, HO.17,       1/9/1967,PAGE 9
criticized the Soviet intervention in neighbouring Afghanistan and accused the Soviet authorities of suppressing Islam there. According to the newspaper, he was convicted of circulating anti-soviet slander" by Kurgan-Tyube regional court, and sentenced to imprisonment'under ar.ticl-d 203-1 of the Tadzhik Criminal Code.
Soviet troops entered Afghanistan in December 1979 /to install Babrak Karma 1 as ”President"_7. Since then it has been rare for offtcial sources in the USSR to report any opposition to Soviet policy in Afghanistan. The publicity given to Kalandar Sadurdinov’s case, however, can be seen as part of an intensive* campaign against nationalist and religious dissent which the* media in Tadzhikstan and the other republics of Soviet central Asia have waged since late 1986. This campaign intensified, after December 1986, when riots broke out in the Kazakh capital of Alma-Ata in protest against the appointment of an ethnic Russian, Gennady Kolbin. as First Secretary of the communist Party of the Kazakh Republic.
                                                  I
The USSR has the fifth largest population of Muslims in the world, estimated at around 50 million. Most of them live in the republics of Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan and are administered by the official Mo.slim Board of Central Asia and Kazakhstan. An official campaign against the Islamic faith in the 1970's left only 400 mosques still in service, and two
Medresses (or theology colleges), both based in Uzbekistan. However, unofficial religious activity appears to have flourished in recent years particularly among young men in their twenties and thirties to Judge from critical articles in the press. On 28 February 1987 Korrmunist Tadzhikstana reported that there were over 1,000 unofficial mullahs in the Tadzhik republic alone. In recent months Amnesty International has learned of several Tadzhiks imprisoned for teaching the Koran in private classes, or for performing traditional marriage ceremonies without, permission. Some were'descri bed as Wahabis, who had advocated a return to traditional values of the Koran , and the formation of an independent Islamic state within Tadzhikstan. Amnesty International is taking up their cases for investigation or adoption as prisoners of conscience.
At pesent there are few details on Kalandar Sadurdinov. The '■ newspaper did not say if he has any family nor when his trial took place. Although Amnesty International does not know the sentence he received, three years' imprisonment is the maximum provided under Article 203-1 of the Tadzhik Criminal Code and it is probable that he is serving his sentence in a corrective labour colony in the Tadzhik republic.
                                             REGRET
We express our regret for numerous typing mistakes in our last issue. We hope our readers did not find them too confusing.