AFGHANews Vol 6, No 23, December 1,1990, page (D
From the diary of Jehad
Part (2)
Council works to unify Mujahideen
Mohammad Es'haq
After four days we reached Piew, a village in the upper part of the Worsaj valley. Trucks were available to take the passengers to Farkhar and Taliqan. Last year, there was no public transport service between Piew and Worsaj.
We reached the Training Center of the Supervisory Council (SC) the same day. The Training Center is located near the city of Farkhar. Commander Masood was not present in the Center; he was in Taliqan.
The next day I went to Taliqan and was able to meet him. He was suffering from malaria but, as usual, he continued to work.
I spent the night with the head of the Intelligence Committee of the SC and he told me about the work his committee had done to expose enemy agents. In the morning, we went to a school where some young people played football. After volleyball, football is the most popular game in Afghanistan. In Taliqan there are many good football pitches, and the sport draws large audiences.
I was informed of the indiscriminate aerial bombing of the city by the Kabul regime last winter. In one case, a bus suffered a direct hit and many people, including women and children, were blown to pieces.
I returned to the Training Center with Commander Masood in the evening. I talked to him for several hours about the situation. Talking to Masood was most useful. He always has clear views about his activities. Clarity in objectives motivates his colleagues to work harder and remain optimistic about their final victory.
Problems
The first topic we discussed was the military situation. The question was, why didn't the SC score major gains after the Soviet troop withdrawal?
Masood listed some of the major difficulties he had faced, as follows:
1-	Lack of unity between the Mujahideen
2-	Lack of resources for offensive operations
3-	Re-organizational problems
During the Soviet occupation of
Afghanistan the Mujahideen fought a defensive war. They resisted the enemy locally and did not feel the need for unity between the Mujahideen over large regions.
The situation changed after the Soviet troops left Afghanistan. The Mujahideen were expected to go on die offensive and defeat the Kabul regime. Despite the wish to achieve a quick victory, the Mujahideen were not ready for such an advanced stage of war. Efforts to capture some cities failed due to lack of preparation for the new type of war.
In order to mobilize a large force for launching such attacks, political unity had to be achieved first. Political unity does not exist among the Mujahideen. The presence of several small groups of Mujahideen, be-
longing to different political groups, close to enemy bases created problems for SC. In order to attack the enemy bases Masood had to seek the cooperation of these groups. Without their cooperation, if launching attacks was not impossible, it certainly was difficult. Political negotiations with these groups wasted valuable time and exposed die intentions of the Mujahideen to the enemy.
Before the Soviets' departure, SC captured five garrisons by launching well-planned surprised attacks. It was possible to do that because the garrisons were located inside the territory controlled by SC. After the Soviet troop withdrawal this was not the case. Fighting was supposed take place against some cities where other parties also were present Another problem in this regard was the interference of the political leaders based in Peshawar. Even if the local commanders agreed to cooperate, they were instructed by their leaders in exile not to cooperate in operations of which their parties did not approve on political grounds. Wasting time in political negotiations with minor groups, losing the advantage of surprise and die intervention of political leadership prevented many operations which SC wanted to launch.
The attack to liberate Badakhshan demonstrate the problems. The Kabul regime had a garrison in Shahr-i-Buzurg of about 2,000 men (army and local militiamen ). The SC launched an attack against the garrison in the spring. Despite initial gains, the victory was not achieved. Problems created by a group of Hezb Islami prevented the fall of the garrison. The Mujahideen movements were reported to the defenders of the garrison and supplies were smuggled to them at night to abort the SC action. Talks with the local Hezb commanders proved useless. Masood decided to abandon the plan at least for the time being.
Lack of cooperation between Mujahideen is a nation-wide problem. Attacks against major enemy targets in one part of the country are not coordinated with simultaneous attacks in other areas to spread enemy forces thin. Masood believed that talking to petty commanders was very time-consuming. He wanted to solve this problem with the political leaders in Peshawar, and in the first place with Hikmatyar whose party created many problems for the SC in the North.
The second problem Masood complained about was lack of enough weapons and ammunition to launch offensives. He did not receive enough arms and ammunition, after the Soviet troop withdrawal, even to defend his bases in the event of enemy offensives to capture them. Masood said his army not only lacked aims and ammunition, but suffered from shortages of shoes, clothes, sleeping bags and food.
The thud factor which delayed launching major attacks was the re-organizational process, which needed time. In order to launch major attacks, the military forces had to be reorganized. Formation of an army was part of this plan. The Mujahideen needed to be trained. There are enough volunteers, but lack of resources prevents recruiting them all. They need food and clothes. Masood said his Mujahideen were ready for attacks against several major enemy targets provided the two other problems-- coordination and the supply of arms and ammunition— were solved.
Careless use of radio communications helped compromise Mujahideen plans. Walkie-talkies are the common radio sets
used by the Mujahideen. Since these radios have fixed frequency channels and the Mujahideen do not encode their messages, the regime listens in. The Kabul regime also exposes most of its plans through sloppy wireless communication. Of course, well-organized Mujahideen groups are an exception to this.
Masood admitted that the re organization of his forces took more time than he had predicted. One of the reasons for this miscalculation was lack of experience.
Setam-i-Mili
The Soviets are directly involved in supporting two local militia factions, SAZA and SAFZA, known as Setam-i-Milli, along the Soviet border in Takhar. Setam-i-Milli, a faction of the PDPA, separated from it at the early stages of its formation. This fac tion claims to promote the cause of non-Pushtun nationalities. They capitalize on the incorrect policies of the previous government toward nationalities and language. Setam-i-Milli was later divided into a moderate party led by Tahir Badakhshi and a radical group led by Bahruddin Baes. Tahir's faction is called SAZA and Baes' faction SAFZA. SAZA is stronger than SAFZA.
After die invasion the two factions cooperated with the Soviets. Some of their members who had become active under the name of Mujahideen, re-joined the government, forming militia groups.
The Soviets' deal with the local militia groups along the border deserves special attention. They had started to make direct contact with armed groups along the border during their occupation of Afghanistan. They not only kept up this contact after they left, but intensified their activities to create loyal militias along the border by extending military and financial assistance to them These militias are loyal to the Soviets and in most cases act independently from the Kabul regime.
Setam-i-Milli was a candidate for this job in the border area of Takhar. After they were driven out of tfear strongholds in Taliqan and surrounding areas, they estab lished themselves in Khawja Ghar, Chayyab and Rustaq districts, located close to the Soviet border.
Due to the wrongful policies of the lo cal Hezb Islami commanders, the Setamis took control of one district and two sub districts along the border in the spring of the current year. This gave them direct access to the Soviet Union, which is separated from them only by the Amu Darya. The Soviets started to send them arms, ammunition and other forms of assistance directly without telling the Kabul regime about it Daily, small Soviet boats bring goods across the river for loyal militias to give them an edge in the war against the Mujahideen. Fierce fighting continued around Khwaja Ghar between the Mujahideen and Setamis all summer.
Masood told many horror stories about Setam-i-Milli. Li one incident, Setamis dragged Commander Piram Qul's wife be hind an armored car until she died. The Mujahideen of SC believed that Setamis were the worst type of communists, who not only had given up religious values but even the kind of civilized behavior that one should expect from human beings.
Setamis have brought their party acti vists from other parts of Afghanistan and stationed them in Takhar. These party activists, called Ustazah, are acting as political commissars for the party. They have estab