AFGHANews Vol6, No 22, November 15,1990, page ©
From the diary of Jehad	Part	-1
Security impresses travellers
Mohammad Es'haq fa
Last summer one and a half years had passed - since the Soviet troop withdrawal but the Najibullah regime, installed by the Red Army, still ruled Kabul.
Fighting between the Mujahideen and the regime was not at such a level that one could expect a military breakthrough in the near future.
Ordinary Afghans, as well as foreigners, asked: how long would the war continue? They wanted to know what would be the outcome of the war and what prevented the expected victory of the Mujahideen. In order to find the answers to some of the above questions, I took a trip to the North to see Ahmad Shah Masood, the most strategic-minded commander of the Mujahideen. This was one of my yearly trips to the area.
The journey started on September 1. I crossed the Pakistan border* into Afghanistan in a pick-up. The Mujahideen have built a road connecting Chitral to Badakhshan. The idea is to take humanitarian supplies and other needs of the Mujahideen inside on trucks. But the road is not yet completed, so goods are transported on pack animals, which is slow and expensive.
The Consulting Bureau for Reconstruction, headed by Engineer Kamaluddin, was in charge of road construction.
When the road reaches Toop Khana, it will be connected to a road built by the Soviets when they occupied the area. If Zebak garrison is eliminated trucks can go close to Faizabad, the provincial capital of Badakhshan. After crossing the pass, I covered the journey on a horse which I had ranted for 50,000 Afs ( about US $ 85). Due to inflation the horse rental rates increase each year.
Transportation of goods and people is a source of income for many families in the North. They take medicine, improved seed, and war material to different destinations inside the country.
The road through Toop Khana is shorter and easier than other routes through Nooristan, and the animals, mainly horses and donkeys, can carry heavier loads. Animals earn more money for their owners.
Tea-houses have been opened by local people all along the roacj. These provide their customers with food and
a place to sleep. In previous years people from different areas had opened teahouses along the road but this year the Mujahideen allowed only the local people to do business. This was done to stop enemy spies' efforts to infiltrate the area. Each person wishing to open a restaurant must get authorization from Sayyed Najmuddin, the Jami'at commander who controls the area.
On the way to Toop Khana, about 15 kilometers from the border, I came across a wounded person being carried on a stretcher to Pakistan. He had been wounded some hours before by a land mine near Toop Khana. I learned later that he died on the way and was taken to his native village in Kuran to be buried. The Soviets had planted many mines in and around Toop Khana when they occupied the area.
A mine clearing team was busy surveying the area and they had marked the mine fields. On the way back I did not see the signs and it seemed that the area was cleared, by UN-trained mine experts. A team was busy working on border-Toop Khana track to clear it from mines so that the new road could be built.
On the way we came across some refugee families who were returning to Afghanistan. In the meantime, some families were heading towards Pakistan making the effect of repatriation nil. The concerned UN agencies always give information about the returning refugees, but deliberately ignore fresh refugees escaping the war.
The Mujahideen In Toop Khana searched us and our saddlebags and checked our passes. These measures are taken to prevent infiltration of saboteurs and illegal transportation of weapons and other goods. The Mujahideen in Toop Khana belong to Sayyed Najmuddin, the Jami'at commander in Jurm who is a member of the Supervisory Council.
The Toop Khana road has superb security. People who carry large sums of money and other valuable goods pass day and night without fear of any kind. No undesirable incident has been reported since the route was reopened one and a half years ago. The reason for this security is the discipline among the Mujahideen, control by one party and the determination of. die Supervisory Council to deal with troublemakers with an iron hand.
After two days' walk I reached Kuran. I was extremely happy to see
Children returning from school. Opening school in such a remote area shows the interest of the Mujahideen in education and refutes all the false allegations by the Soviets and their puppets that die Mujahideen are struggling to block progress. The people of Kuran were busy working on their fields; the weather was good and they lived in peace.
After two more days of walking we reached the upper part of the Vorsaj Valley, in Takhar Province. We came across a group of people from Qala-i-Zal who were going to Pakistan. They belonged to Torokman ethnic group. They said the Kabul regime had attacked Qala-i-Zal to establish itself there, and as a result of fighting between the Mujahideen and the regime the people of many villages in the center of the district became refugees. They had left their families in the liberated area and were going to Pakistan to check on the situation.
Afghan wrestlers1 win Tokyo match
Two Afghan wrestlers defeated AMapanese opponents hi Tokyo.
Cotmmmder Anwar, who led the Afghan team, said Narir Mohammad and RariguU the two members of the Afghan Wrestling Club> defeated their Japanese opponents in the 2?th iiilriendship Wrestling Games.
Wrestlers from 4$ countries had participated in the contest which conM tinned from September $ to&
Afghan team was invited'
Forty wrestlers arc thought in Afghan Wrestling CM? by experienced Instructors most of whom were :!the::lmembers of the Afghan National j
' Commander Anwar who was a member of wrestling team himself: jsstiMJ percent of Afghan sportsmen hayeiMt the country to avoid forced conscription. He said Afghan sports*: pKOt should have a federation to promote games.
He said the AIG can help Afghan national sports by merging all sports organization in Pakistan into one federation and provide facilities to the sportsmen.
______________________________________/