AFGHANews Vol 6, No 18 &19 October 1, 1990, page ©
Mujaddidi visit helpful
The visit by AIG President Sibghatullah Mujaddidi to the bases of the Supervisory Council (Shoora) was a positive step to bring better understanding between resistance political leaders and the Mujahideen.
Prof. Mujaddidi is the first leader since Prof. Rabbani to visit the area. The Jarni’at leader visited the North two years ago.
The people in the North have deep respect for Prof. Mujaddidi for many reasons. He is a religious scholar and comes from a spiritual family. He embarked upon the Jehad against tyranny long ago and has been imprisoned for defending his religion. His courageous stand on the Farkhar incident was appreciated by the people in the North. The extraordinary welcome shown to him by the people of Badakhshan and Takhar is a clear proof of the popularity of President Mujaddidi.
Prof. Mujaddidi was elected president of AIG in February of 1988. Due to different reasons, some of which he himself has mentioned in his speeches, the Interim Government could not meet the expectation of this people and failed to achieve its objectives.
The major reason for the failure of the AIG was lack of cooperation between the government and the field commanders. Due to internal and external factors, the field commanders' support for the AIG was not sought at the early stages of the formation of the government.. If current efforts to bring the effective commanders and the AIG together had taken place earlier, the interim government would have established itself as a credible political structure. The need for understanding is still strong and Prof. Mujaddidi's initiative in visiting the war zone is a positive step which deserves appreciation.
Let's hope this visit will pave the way for practical cooperation between the Mujahideen in their struggle against the communists.
The major problem preventing Mujahideen victory is lack of unity. Without unity no general mobilization can take place; and in the absence of coordinated military efforts, one cannot expect major victories in the battlefield.
To mobilize and coordinate the Mujahideen an understanding must be reached between different fronts. Such an understanding can be reached through negotiations. The proper venue for discussion about the future of Afghanistan is inside Afghanistan, because there no outside pressure can influence the talks and the negotiations will have a greater chance of success.
Mujaddidi's trip to see the Shoora's area and talk to its leaders is an important event for the Shoora too. President Mujaddidi and his companions got firsthand information about the Shoora's activities in different fields.
Despite its size and achievements, the Shoora is not well-known to many Afghans. Outsiders have heard contradictory views about the Shoora. Its enemies have tried to frighten other Mujahideen groups by distorting facts about the Shoora's goals. Prof. Mujaddidi's trip to the area will neutralize most of the propaganda.
Personnel contact between Mujaddidi and Masood will enable the two leaders to understand each other better.
The president also saw that the Shoora has not been given its due in the political and military fields.
He saw that Taliqan, the biggest city controlled by the Mujahideen, is run by a coalition government comprising three parties of Jami'at, Hezb Islami (Khalis) and Harakat. This can serve as a good example in other parts of Afghanistan.
Mujaddidi's trip to the North was a timely gesture which was welcomed by the people. Let's pray his trip brings Mujahideen closer together.
History
repeats
itself
Mehraboddin Mastan A
It would be wrong to say that history will never repeat itself. The spiritual and hereditary leaders of the Ismailites, the Agha Khans, have always taken a particular attitude toward Afghanistan issue.
Thus, according to Yann Kerlau in "Les Agha Khans" (Perrin Edition in France) during the three Anglo-Afghan wars of the 19th century, Agha Khan Mehalatee become a loyal agent of Great Britain. He struggled against the Afghan freedom fighters, and in exchange he received honors and a pension from the Queen.
In 1990, a similar situation is taking shape again through the involvement of Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan, United Nations coordinator for Afghanistan, who seeks to render similar services to Soviet imperialism.
To conduct aid from the international community to the communist regime in Kabul; to invite NGOs to be installed in Kabul; to wilfully ignore the Afghan resistance (excepting the distribution of a few hundreds tonnes of wheat); and to insist that Afghan refugees return to their homes in spite of unacceptable conditions there, demonstrate clearly the direction of the policies of Prince Sadruddin, his advisors and UN colleagues.
It seems that like Diego Cordovez, Prince Sadruddin wants to succeed Javier Perez de Cuellar as UN general secretary.
To do this, he has to satisfy the Russians in order to obtain their vote in his favor.
It is grossly unjust for the future of a nation to be sacrificed at the altar of the Prince's personal ambition.
Town built
The Mujahideen are building a new town in Baharak sub-district of Badakhshan.
The town is constructed near the old town, which was destroyed during the war. The new town is located 500 meters away from the old town. Baharak is controlled by Commander Sayyed Najimuddin.