AFGHANews Vol 5, No 1, January 1,1989, page 8
Soviet journalist sees no future for regime
A Soviet journalist has said that the communist regime in kabul has lost the confidence of the people of Afghanistan.
Artem Borovik, the foreign editor of daily Ogonyok, who participated in a conference about Afghanistan organized by the Oriental and African studies of London university, told BBC that he was not optimistic about the future of Afghanistan.
The Soviet journalist said the invasion of Afghanistan was a mistake committed by Breznev. He criticized the limitation imposed by the Soviet government on the coverage of war during the Breznev rule.
Due to these limitations, the people of Soviet Union did not know about the problems the soldiers were facing in Afghanistan. The people of the Soviet Union were thinking their soldiers were busy planting trees and growing flowers, Mr. Borovik said.
He was of the view that the Soviet troops will be withdrawn by February 15.
The Soviet journalist said that after nine years of war the relation between the Soviets and Afghans will not be friendly. The Soviet leaders would like to see a government in Afghanistan which is not hostile to the Soviet Union.
Islamic Movement
From page (5 )
other establishments. They had lost the dominating position in the educational institution. Some nationalist movements disintegrated. Most of their members joined the Islamic movement and some who were leftist members joined the communist groups.
The Islamic movement realized that without an organized party it could play an effective role in the politics of the country.
It was six months before the fall of King Zahir Shah that the movement which was named Jami'at started to register its members. They chose a council and appointed Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani as the first leader of Jami’at.
When Daud made the coup with the help of the communists difficult times started for the Islamic movement.
Most of its founding members were arrested and some were forced into exile. In exile the movement faced other problems and finally was divided. Even some people started to deny that the name of the party was Jami'at and its elected leader was Prof. Rabbani. What happened to the Movement during Daud's time will be discussed in the next issue of Afghanews.
Warning Masood
The Kabul regime has warned Commander Masood of the Panjshir valley not to disturb the Salang Highway or face the consequence of his action. Salang road brings supplies from the Soviet border to Kabul the capital of the county which is facing food arid fuel shortages.
UN convoy ambushed North of Kabul
A UN convoy transporting humanitarian assistance to the war affected people in Panjshir was ambushed by Mujahideen belonging to Hezb Islami (Hekmatyar group) near Charikar city about 50 kilometers north of Kabul on November 26.
The convoy which was composed of 18 trucks were carrying seed fertilizer and medicine to the valley.
The convoy which was travelling under the UN flag was stopped by a commander from Hezb a few kilometers south of the provincial capital of Perwan province. Ten trucks and three officials of the UN were captured in the incident Four days later the three officials were released when UN officers contacted the Hezb leader in Peshawar. The commander confiscated the contents of the ten trucks he had captured.
According to the UN officials,
Hezb leader told them that attacking a UN convoy was not the policy of Hezb but the decision of a single individual.
Despite their official denial some Hezb officers justify the action of their commander on the ground that the UN convoy was coming from Kabul and the material was going to Masood.
Earlier a UN team had gone with the Mujahideen to the North and central parts of Afhanistan on a fact-finding mission. The team returned and submitted its report to Prince Aqha Kahn, the UN Coordinator for Humanitarian Assistance to Afghanistan.
Soviet
envoy
meets
ex-king
A Soviet high-ranking representative has met the ex-king, Mohammad Zahir in P.ome to discuss with him the situation in Afghanistan.
Mohmmad Zahir, 74, was deposed by his cousin. Prince Daud in 1973 and since then has lived in exile in Italy.
Soviets and members of the communist regime have been trying to involve the ex-king in the National Reconciliation program of the regime. In the Taif talks, Youri Vorontsov raised the question of participation of the ex-king in what he termed "intra-Afghan dialogue." The Mujahideen delegation did not discuss the proposal because participation of individuals was an internal issue of Afghans.
The ex-king has shown interest in playing a role in the political life of the country but has not taken any practical steps towards this end. It is not known what role the Soviets are ready to give to the ex-king. Some people think he could play the role of a figure head in post-war Afghanistan, but most of the important Mujahideen parties and field commanders have opposed his return.
Prof. Rabbani, the current chairman of Afghan Mujahideen Alliance, has opposed holding talks between the Soviet officials and the ex-king.
"Zahir Shah belongs to history and has no role to play in Afghanistan and its political future.", the Alliance leader said.
To the Soviets, Zahir Shah is a known figure. During the long rule of the ex-king the Soviets gained considerable influence in Afghanistan.
Talks on POWs
The second round of talks on the prisoners of war issue between the Mujahideen and the Soviets was held in Islamabad on December 17.
A two-member delegation of the Mujahideen met Soviet officials in Islamabd. The discussions concentrated on the exchange of Soviet prisoners of war with the Mujahideen captured by the Soviets.
In the first round of talks the Mujahideen had given the name of four Soviet prisoners to be exchanged with one hundred Mujahideen.