AFGHANews Vol 6, No 20 & 21, November 1,1990, page ©
the sages
Never allow sentiment to cloud your judgement
A tribe of Arab robbers had taken a hilltop overlooking a caravan route. They oppressed the local people and drove off the king's troops, who were unable to expel them from their hilltop base. •
The local authorities called a meeting to discuss how to root out this evil before it got out of hand.
They agreed to send one man to spy on the robbers. They waited for a chance when the robbers had ridden out to attack a village and the base remained empty. Immediately, they picked a handful of seasoned fighters and sent them to hide in the recesses of the mountains.
At dusk, the robbers came back from their raid and put down their plunder and weapons. •
Sleep was the first enemy to overcome them.
After a watch of the night had gone by, the fearless fighters came out from their hiding places and tied each of the robbers’ hands behind his back. In the morning, they dragged off the prisoners to the court and the king waved them off to be executed.
It so happened that there was a young lad among the robbers, good looking and in the first flush of youth. One of the ministers was moved to pity, knelt before the king's throne and said: " This lad has not had chance to enjoy any of the fruits of the garden of life. Your humble servant would be most deeply indebted to his Majesty, if he would graciously spare the lad's life."
The king frowned at these words and answered: ” You can’t redeem anyone who is fundamentally corrupt. For them, education is just like water off a duck's back! It would be much better to cut off this tribe root and branch. Would anyone in their senses put out a fire and leave the ashes smoldering or kill a snake and leave its newly-hatched eggs?"
The minister had to nod in agreement whether he liked it or not: "Of course, what my Lord says is the truth itself. Indeed, if this lad had been educated among these criminals, he would
have become one of them. But he is still a child. Their bad habits are not yet ingrained in him. Your humble servant fondly hopes that this lad might benefit from the company of educated and virtuous people."
As he finished speaking, a number of the king's companions joined him in begging for mercy. The king gave way and said:" I spare him though I do not think it wise."
Have you heard what his father told the warrior Rustam? NEVER UNDER ESTIMATE YOUR ENEMIES. How many small streams have I seen grown to rushing torrent which swept away both the camels and their loads!
So the minister took the lad into his home, pampered him and appointed tutors to teach him good manners, elegant speech and all the arts of a courtier. Everyone admired the transformation. One day he was recounting some of the lad's qualities and boasting that polite company had had its effect:" All trace of the boy's previous churlish ignorance has vanished.”
The king gave a dry smile anc said: " You wait! This wolf cub wil grow into a wolf, even though it.grows up among humans."
A year or two later, the lad started hanging around with the local gang of
Turn to page (7 )
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
Lji jS ji *£ J5ul»
M *
1 jy***j*A
If a forest catches fire, both the dry and the wet will burn up.
Meaning: When trouble comes, it overtakes guilty and innocent alike.
xtjtt jut jl w! Xd O a jiJ |1L
When water goes over your head, what difference if it's one fathom or a hundred fathoms.
Meaning: As well be hung for sheep as a lamb.
Stretch your feet according to the length of the sheet.
Meaning: Cut your coat according to your cloth.
Who laughs long will cry long too.
Meaning: There is a cross to every rosary.
.
HHHhapis
■	*	-.V	"	■	x	.v,
property then he is