AFGHANews Vol 6, No 20 & 21, November 1,1990, page ©
Gorbachev: a poor choice for the Nobel Peace Prize
Mikhail Gorbachev came to power during the spring of 1985, five years after the beginning of the brutal war in Afghanistan. The Soviet leadership, headed by their new president, examined and evaluated the war. As a result, the Soviets decided to intensify their war efforts in order to crush the Afghan resistance. Just one month after Gorbachev came to power, the Soviet Union doubled its war efforts. In spite of this military escalation, however, the Soviets could not defeat the Afghan Mujahideen. Instead, they acquired an increased political and military burden, which led to the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan in February of 1989.
To date one can summarize that:
-	Gorbachev shares responsibility for the deaths of 1-1.5 million Afghans.
-	Gorbachev shares responsibility for creating the greatest refugee emergency situation in the world, as 6-7 million Afghans have been forced to seek refuge in foreign countries and within their own country.
-	Gorbachev shares responsibility for the enormous destruction of the Afghan infrastructure.
-	Gorbachev shares responsibility for the millions of mines planted throughout Afghanistan, and is ultimately responsible for the nonexistence of any constructive Soviet initiatives to clear the mines from the country.
-	Gorbachev holds ultimate responsibility for the massive military support that the Soviets continue to give to the Quisling regime in Kabul. Even today, the Soviet Union provides the Kabul regime with a great number of military and civilian advisors. Total military assistance amounts to 400 million US dollars per month. This assistance is the major obstacle to a peaceful solution of the problem of Afghanistan.
The decision by the Nobel Prize committee honoring Mikhail Gorbachev with the 1990 Nobel Peace Prize is outrageous.
No other statesman active today has so many lost human lives to account for as this year's winner of the Peace Prize as Gorbachev holds ultimate responsibility for Soviet policy in Afghanistan during the past five years.
Regardless of the importance Mikhail Gorbachev may have had for democratic development in Eastern Europe, it is impossible to disregard Gorbachev's responsibility for the in-
comprehensible war crimes in Afghanistan during the past five years.
Mikhail Gorbachev will forever be associated with the Afghan tragedy. To give a prestigious award like the Nobel Peace Prize to such a person is a disgrace.
The world must not forget Afghanistan and its people. Continued humanitarian assistance is necessary today, during the ongoing war, and tomorrow, for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the country.
In the political arena, the world must demand that Mikhail Gorbachev make a real effort for peace and immediately stop his interventionist policies in Afghanistan.
• ••
The above, article is sponsored by the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan (SCA)
The SCA is a politically and religiously neutral solidarity organization. It has approximately 25000 members and financial donors. Since 1982, the SCA has provided humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan. The SCA's assistance budget for 1990 totals nearly 15 million US dollars.
Fresh strategy
From page (1)
trip.
Masood met with Karim Khalili, the spokesman of the Tehran-based Wahdat Party in Peshawar. He also talked with Peshawar-based Coalition of Shia parties.
Masood was invited by the Government of Iran to visit Tehran. He thanked the Iranian government for the invitation but, due to a shortage of time, the trip will take place in the future.
Masood visited Peshawar to continue consultations with the commanders and leaders and to meet with a large number of people coming from all walks of life who were waiting to see him.
During this trip he also discussed with the Jami'at leader and officers the need to re-organize Jami'at so that it can deal with the new developments in the country. Commanders from inside have been demanding such a change for sometime.
Radio Moscow’s Persian Service broadcast for Afghanistan has started to allow recitation of Holy Quran in its religious programs; Holy Quran j$ recited by one of the Russian reciters (Qari).

The Mujahideen have built a new mosque in Hassar Somoch village If Rustaq disij1^|:HtNA repoiie<^!!| The mpsque can accommodate up to 600 people and has residence facilities for the. Imam, (prayer leader) and Madrasa (religious school), MuHah=:';:''Pirithn Qul|S\:YjNe Mujahideen commander in the area, said the expenses of building the mosque have been borne jointly by Jami’at and die iota! peafylejftlvy piram Qqlis lamf at t^mapdCT of Rustaq District He isfamousfec his courage on the ]batd^S|||d his good
voluntary ag^n^:;;wodcmg for refugees,
deceits. ■,
The deceits locked the the two watchmen m a room and took away three carsp^SSM valuable goods.
Iran and Soviet Union have agreed to ^un^^ji links and to ^ crease air trfec between Moscow and Tehran;#?


| A Muslim cleric has converted to Islam 125 Umted ®
in Saudi Aafah. at daily Nadwah reported dh;$iiturd^::||;y . V; • It quoted preacher atAkkas p	al
idwied.' by IX& army authorities to lecture American cistomis and tmiSidns^ l!l!^P?f
mwm
The Afghan Mujahideen have; succeeded in jamming Kabul TV as a of the psychotogical war against th|.Kabul regime V-
w