AFG-HANews Vol 6, No 6, March 15,1990, page ®
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Dr. Mohammad Sadiq
Dr. Abdur Razaq, how known as Dr. Sadiq, was bom 35 years ago in Chouki District, located in Kunar Province. He came from religious family who encouraged him to pursue school education. His father died when he was eleven years old. Razaq went to high school in Chouki district and achieved very good grades. He was the head of the Student Islamic Movement at high school.
He was in class four of the Faculty of Health at Kabul University at the time of the Communist Coup of 1978. This prompted him to leave university and take up refugee status in Pakistan.
Dr. Sadiq later returned to Afghanistan and started participating in anti-communist activities in his native province of Kunar. In 1981 he was injured while fighting against the Communist Army. A short while later he became the Deputy Commander of a Mujahideen unit based in Kunar, which was followed . by him becoming their
Commander.
Dr. Sadiq lost two brothers respectively in 1983 and 1984 who both died while fighting the Communists.
In heavy fighting in the lower valley of Kunar, Dr. Sadiq led his men to inflict . heavy losses upon the Communists which involved the destruction of a large number of tanks and the shooting down of some military airplanes. His men contributed significantly in the liberation of Kunar Province which was finally achieved in 1988.
After the liberation of Kunar Province, Dr. Sadiq led his men in fighting against Jalalabad and fought in the Basoud area in Ningarhar Province.
Dr. Sadiq is respected for his honesty and courage. He has good party relations amongst various factions of the Majahideen.
He is married and his family lives in a refugee camp in Pakistan.


Commander Atiyatullah
Commander	.	Makhdoom
Atiyatullah s/o Mawlavi Sayyed Tajuddin, 29, was born in the village of Deh Maidan of Maimana, the provincial capital of Faryab. His family were the first refugees to cross the Amu river from Bukhara in central Asia when the area came under Russian control.
"He always reminded us about the plight of the people of Tajikistan who were forced out of their land by the Red Army," said his representative in Peshawar.
Some of Atiyatullah's group commanders are sons of those refugees belonging to Bukhara and Samarqand.
Atiyatullah learned the first lessons of Islam from his father and then lie joined Madrasa-e-Abumuslim Khurasani in Faryab city. When the communists took power in Kabul, he contacted the Mujahideen. *
In 1981, after completing his school, Atiyatullah took arms and joined Jami'at Island Mujahideen under Sayyed Hamid Agha. For about three years he worked with commander Hamid as a Mujahid, group commander and deputy commander.
In 1984, when Commander Sayyed Hamid was martyred, Atiyatullah was elected by the Mujahideen as the commander of the urban Mujahideen in the suburbs of
Maimana.
Atiyatullah's organizational work in the city became more and more effective. He established his base around the city of Faryab. He divided his grup into smaller units to carry out small raids against enemy positions.
Commander Atiyatullah fought a major war in 1988 against the communist forces. In the operation five thousand government militiamen belonging to Abdur Rashid Dostam and Gelam Jam participatecL Atiyatullah along with other groups of Mujahideen fought for three days. The Mujahideen killed or woundedS 500 enemy soldiers.
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
** J
A fox is in trouble because of his own pelt.
Meaning: A person's own talents or possessions can involve him in trouble, thus becoming his worst enemy.
Two watermelons can't be held in one hand.
Meaning: If you have too many preoccupations, you will succeed at non of them.
y^y
■Jj&jul jXf
A new servant can catch arunning deer.
Meaning: A person who is new at a job is overly energetic in an attempt to make a good impression.
0*^ *3 (J* xjl.
Even a straw is clutched at when drowning in water.
Meaning: A drowning man will catch at a straw.