                                        2-----
                                  NEWS
                             ©HOOK PROVINCE Jan-l2-ig&6.                                .
 Soviet-DRA forces attacked Tolak district which is located close to Sheendand Airbase.. Mujahideen resisted the invading forces. Eight tanks and APCs, two oil-tankers and one truck were destroyed either by land mine or RPG fire. Twelve Soviet soldiers were killed and 4 DRA soldiers joined Mujahideen with their weapons. Ten Mujahids were martyred,
 Jan=15^86'
 Mujahideen attacked an enemy post in Tolak district. As a result of Mujahideen fire seven Communists ware killed. Mujahideen captured 5 guns. One Mujahid was martyred during the operation. Mujahideen are facing a shortage of food ir. this area.
 3-12-85                                                '
 A late report from Ghoor say* that the enemy forces' launched a massive attack on Ghoor province. The invading forces which was compo-sed of several hundred AFVs and was protected by Helicopters and Jets, moved from Shindand, a Soviet base in the west of Afghanistan. The aim of the enemy was to re-establish Sftahrak district headquarters, Mujahideen from different parties joined together to attack the enemy,
 A large number of enemy armoured cars and trucks were destroyed. Casualties among the enemy soldiers ware heavy. Sixty DRA soldiers joined Mujahideen. Four Helicopters were shot down. Unfortunately Mujahideen from the area do not have cameras to photograph the helicopters which were -Shot down.                                      ,        , •
 It should be mentioned that Ghoor province has six districts and one sub-district. Four districts and one sub-district are completely liberated and the enemy has a minor presence" in the two other districts. Mujahideen'and the people in the Ghoor are facing a shortage of food.
 Jan-2-86 '
 Fourteen Soviet Jets bombed Mujahideen controlled areas of Chekh-Cha-ra^ the provincial capital of Ghoor, for one hour. They dropped 400 different, bombs including cluster and incendary. Two Mujahids were martyred and four others injured. A large number of cattle belonging to.poor people of the area were killed as a result of this bombardment. The weather is cold and aerial bombardments occur frequently. The-.people are facing great difficulties-
 This report was written by Ghulara Haboani Ghafoori Mujahideen Comman-
der in the area. Feb-1-86
KAP ISA^paoyINCE
 After a revere artillary bombardment of the area, the enemy armoured units wanted to pass Abdull-i-3urj bridge. The purpose of this attack was to establish security posts along the road from Bagram Air 3ase ..