Vol 6, No 10	May	15,1990
Sadruddin uses US donation for 'Tranquil Zones'
The United States has contributed 13.5 million dollars to the United Nations relief fund for Afghanistan.
The check was handed over by an American official to Sadruddin Agha Khan, UN Coordinator for Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Programs , Relating to Afghanistan, in Geneva on April 30.
Sadruddin said the money will be spent to promote 'zones of tranquility' inside Afghanistan.
The Mujahideen have criticized Prince Sadruddins's proposal for creation of 'zones of tranquility' because it envisages observation of cease-fires by the Mujahideen and the regime. The Mujahideen are also critical of the way that Sadruddin's office carries out his missions inside Afghanistan. They complain that UN officials do not treat the two sides of the conflict equally and that they are biased towards the Soviet-backed Kabul regime.
US sends apple seedlings to free Afghanistan
The US has donated 93,000 apple-tree seedlings to Afghanistan on the occasion of Earth Day 1990. The climate in Afghanistan is particularly suitable for growing apples and other fruit; but the Soviet invasion caused the destruction of most of the country's orchards.
The seedlings were purchased in Turkey and airlifted to Pakistan, then transported on trucks to Kunar, Wardak, Ghazni and Logar provinces.
I Wounded children i
| Thirty-Six wounded children* | have been taken from Kabul to West j | Germany for medical treatment | Kabul regime radio alleged that | the children were wounded by rock-lets fired on Kabul by the I Mujahideen. The children were taken I to Germany by the Peace Village I (possibly a communist organization).
'Salvation Society' criticizes regime's two-faced policy
Asghar Khan, an ex-minister and present head of the Afghanistan Salvation Society, a so-called independent organization, has said that Najibullah talks about changes without taking any action to introduce them.
He told a BBC correspondent in Kabul that regime should have realized that Afghans do not want a communist party.
The Afghanistan Salvation Society claims to have been independently established by ex-army officers and civil servants to promote peace.
Asghar Khan also criticized the Mujahideen for lack of unity and failure to offer a comprehensive program to solve the current problem of Afghanistan.
He said groups presently cooperating with the Kabul regime are leftist and their participation does not change one-party rule in Afghanistan.
The Salvation Society was formed after the Soviet troop withdrawal in 1989. Its leaders have not participated in Jehad against the Soviet occupation. Because of this the resistance is suspicious of their claims of Independence
from the regime.
The Salvation Society supports the solution of the Afghan problem through negotiations between the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime, something that the Kabul regime supports. There is thus good reason for the regime to allow such so-called independent groups to carry out their activities. It improves regime's image and provides free publicity for the official policy of the regime. Personal ambi tions of the members to regain influence in the future may be a motive behind their decision to form the Salvation Society. In view of the un compromising attitudes of the Mujahideen and communists towards one another, the politicians see an opportunity for themselves to be indepen dent peace makers.
The UN has been studying this is sue for some time. Similar'independent groups' also exist in exile, in Pakistan and the west, who are encouraged by organizations which believe in a third party solution of the Afghan problem.
ICRC claims arranging local cease-fires
The International Committee of Red Cross (ICRC) has said it has been able to arrange, for the first time in Afghanistan, two local cease-fires for treatment of non-combatants wounded in the war.
A press release of ICRC in Geneva says that a local cease-fire was arranged between the regime and the Mujahideen in Mazar during which 90 wounded civilians were treated by an ICRC surgical mobile team. The team entered the Mujahideen area from Mazar, which is controlled the Kabul regime.
One week later, on April 12, an ICRC team took two wounded children and one old man from Maidan Shar, Wardak Province, to the ICRC hospital in Kabul after a brief cease-fire between
the two sides.
Red Cross staff interpret these two cease-fires as a sign of the confidence of the two sides in the conflict^-the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime- in their organization.
Hie Mujahideen started to mistrust ICRC when it involved itself in securing the release of some Soviet prison ers captured by the Mujahideen in the first years of 1980s. Hie Mujahideen expected their action be reciprocate* by the Soviets but it was not.
Later, ICRC opened a hospital in Kabul and in some other cities con trolled by the regime, but refused to open hospitals in the areas controlle* by the Mujahideen.
Turn to page (2)