AFGHANews Vol 6, No 22, November 15,1990, page
	A
Editorial 		
Mujahideen reject any formula involving communists in Kabul
The two superpowers try to seek a political settlement through holding elections but understandings reached so far make the formula unacceptable to the Mujahideen. Talks between the representatives of the US and Soviet Union at the technical level continue.
The two sides have agreed that best way to solve the Afghan crisis is to hold elections in which all sides in the conflict will take part. This idea is also included in the unanimous resolution passed recently by the UN General Assembly. They have agreed on a transitional period and an interim set-up to supervise the proposed election.
At the start Americans insisted on the removal of Najib from power before any political process could start, but later they changed their position by saying that Najib could remain in power at the start of such a political process.
The two sides have taken a further step, and are discussing the transitional mechanism that will supervise elections. Now the question between the two sides is not about removing from power the PDPA and Najib but the transfer of some of its powers to the election commission. In other words, the formula envisages that Najib will retain his position as the head of the regime, but will hand over some of his power to the electiSn commission. The talks are centered around how much of Najib's power must be transferred to the Election Commission to make it able to hold fair elections.
' The composition of the election commission is also under discussion and the two sides agree that it must be a broad-based body.
The two sides see an active role for the UN to supervise elections and arrange formation of the broad-based commission. The role of the OIC has also come under discussion. The Soviets are opposed to an OIC role.
The other elements discussed in the talks are an arms embargo and cease-fire to pave the way for holding elections. The Soviets are in favor of an immediate arms embargo, while the Americans support it as a part of a comprehensive peace formula.
It should be added that these are merely understandings and have not yet been signed into an agreement.
While we are in favor of a political settlement, we cannot allow Najib and his party, who were brought to power by the Red Army, to play any role in politics of Afghanistan. This is why we can agree with neither a temporary nor a long-term role for Najib, nor with either a symbolic or real role for him. All Mujahideen groups are united in rejection of Najib and his party.
We think that the Americans have gone too far in their desire for peace by accepting a temporary and symbolic role for Najib. Probably their decision has been affected by the military stalemate in Afghanistan. Afghans share then: desire for peace, but what price should be paid is something on which we differ. We cannot think of peace as long as the Kabul regime is in power. The events after the signing of the Geneva accords and the Soviet troop withdrawal showed that Najib is the main obstacle in the way of peace and that he must go before any meaningful political process can start _
Afghans are told they will have the final say on any agreement reached, which is a good thing, but mere assurances will not stop Afghans from being worried because the Geneva accord was signed against their wishes and was sponsored by the same people who now are engaged in the current peace talks.
The other disturbing p$)int is the increasing role of the UN in the peace process. The resistance is in favor of the UN role in the process, but the past behav ior of the UN shpws its bias towards the puppet regime in Kabul.
The UN sponsored Geneva accord^ give the Kabul regime the status of the
Turn to page (7)
Obituary
Jami'at Cmdr. killed in action
The Jami'at deputy commander in Mohammad Agha District, Logar Province, was killed in action on October 7.
Commander Hafizullah, 32, who was known by his war name, Zabit Agha Jan, was appointed to his post in 1980. He ied his Mujahideen in many battles against the Soviets and the puppet regime. In an attack launched by him on a supply convoy of the enemy in 1982, five tanks and armored cars were destroyed and 20 soldiers and officers were killed. In 1983, his Mujahideen destroyed 12 trucks and killed many enemy soldiers in Zaidabad village.
Agha Jan started Jehad when he was a police officer in Herat He contacted the Mujahideen and later organized a mutiny in which 25 communist officers and soldiers were killed, and he and his friends joined the Mujahideen bringing with them 122 light weapons, eight trucks and one R-118 wireless set. He remained for one year in Herat after he joined the Mujahideen to fought the communists.
Agha Jan was a graduate of the Kabul Police Academy and served as a police officer for eight months before joining the Mujahideen. He had studied primary	and	high	schools	in
Mohammad Agha. He hailed from Pushtun family and his father, Maulawi Mohammad Usman, was a religious scholar.
His courage and humility are praised by his colleagues. He liked to study when he found time. He has left behind a widow and two children who live as refugees in a camp near Peshawar.
Nobel Prize
From page(l)
sion of Afghanistan into a bilateral is sue between the Kabul regime and Pakistan. The Afghan resistance was deliberately left out and the Soviet role in the conflict was made equal to US role in Afghanistan! After signing the Geneva accords Cordovez started to work for national reconciliation. His harsh remarks about the resistance forced the UN Secretary General to replace him with another UN officer.