AFGHANews Vol 5, No 18 & 19, October 1,1989, page ©
Vorontsov ends his mission in Kabul
Soviet Ambassador to Kabul, Yuli Vorontsov, ended his mission on September 10.
He was appointed to the post in 1988 before the Soviets started the withdrawal of their troops.
Vorontsov, who was also the first deputy foreign minister, played a key role in maintaining Soviet support for the Kabul regime.
He played an active political role during and after the withdrawal of troops. He held two rounds of talks with the seven-party alliance and Iran-based parties. He also met with Zahir Shah to persuade him to work with the PDPA.
He was more than an ambassador to Afghanistan. Vorontsov tried very hard to unite the communists and divide the resistance. His separate talks with Iran-based parties and Zahir Shah, and
attempts to contact the field commanders, were aimed at driving a wedge between the resistance groups.
He was neither successful in uniting the communists nor in dealing with different resistance groups separately.
The communist regime did not fall while he was in Kabul, but he left behind an isolated regime facing tremendous problems.
Vorontsov mixed diplomatic tactics with threats of force, both at the negotiating table and in Kabul as ambassador.
He ordered the arrest of opponents of Najib within the PDPA, and was responsible for the massacre of several hundred people in Salang in January of the current year.
His replacement in Kabul has not been announced.
NAM for broad-based government in Kabul
The Non-Aligned Movement summit in Belgrade has asked for the formation of a broad-based government in Afghanistan and declared the need for intra-Afghan dialogue.
The ninth session of NAM, which ended on September 8, also stressed the need to pave the way for the voluntary return of the Afghan refugees.
Najibullah, the head of the Kabul regime, attended the summit. The Kabul regime had proposed that formation of an international conference on Afghanistan should be included in the final document of the summit, but this was rejected due to opposition by Pakistan.
Prof. Mujaddidi, the president of Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan, sent a message to the new chairman of the Movement, President Janez Dmovsek of Yugoslavia, asking that the Afghan seat in the Movement should be given to the Interim Government
The final declaration on Afghanistan is similar to the UN's unanimous resolution of last year.
While the Mujahideen agree that a broad-based government should be formed, they are against the participation of the Kabul regime in that government. They also reject any kind of dialogue with the regime.
The NAM stand on Afghan issue has not been strong from the start Its resolution did not mention the Soviets as an aggressor.
During the occupation of Afghanistan, the NAM leadership fell into the hands of countries which had special ties with the Soviet Union. They softened the tone, of the resolution to suit the Soviets and the puppet regime, which is a member of NAM.

ami'at gives its schools
The Education Committee of Jami'at Islami was handed over to the Ministry of Education of the Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan on September 12.
This was announced at a meeting convened for the occasion by the Education Committee of Jami'at. Prof. Rabbani, Jami'at leader and Farooq Azam, the Education Minister participated as chief guests.
Prof. Rabbani stressed the need for equal educational opportunities for all Afghans. He also stressed the need for clear objectives and homogeneous curriculum.
Jami'at Education Committee runs hundreds of schools in the refugees camps in Iran and Pakistan, as well as inside Afghanistan.
Some other parties also have shown a readiness to give their educational responsibilities to the Interim Government Prof. Sayyafs party has handed over its education committee as well.
One of the reasons for the decision could be financial. Parties find themselves in a difficult position when trying to finance such a huge network of schools scattered in three countries, while their resources are shrinking daily.
AIG tribunal starts hearing of Farkhar killing
A six-member Tribunal appointed by the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) has reached Takhar to investigate the Ferkhar massacre.
Jami'at and Hezb who are die two sides of the case have pledged to accept the judgement of the tribunal which is composed of religious Ulama.
It took seven weeks before the tribunal was announced. In the mean-time Sayed Jamal who allegedly ordered the massacre was captured along with his men by the Mujahideen from the Supervisory Council.
The tribunal is headed by Maulawi Qalander and a Pakistani religious scholar from Chitral is also a member.
Originally an Arab scholar, Abdullah Ezam, was named but he refused to be part of the delegation because after returning from a fact finding mission to the area immediately after the incident he had formed an opinion. This scholar had told the Mujahideen in the area that Jamal who ordered Farkhar killing must be called Jamal Rushdi, the notorious British writer whose satanic verses has offended million Muslims
It is too early to say anything about the outcome of the this mission. But some people think that the tribunal may try to make a reconciliation between the Mujahideen rather than to pass a verdict on the incident.