—------------AFGHANews Vol 5,	No 1, January 1, 1989, page 5
Evolution of Islmic movement in Afghanistan	Part	(I)
Islamists felt need for a party
to defend Islam
By Mohammad Es’haq
The roots of Islamic movement in Afghanistan are deeply rooted in the history of the country. But the Movement emerged as an effective force only at the end of 60s and the beggin-nig of 70s.
The constitution of 1965 gave some degree of political freedom to the people. The political climate became hot when the first election for the national assembly was held under the new constitution. The people belonging to different political groups participated in it.
Some of the candidates were landlords and bureaucrats closely connected to the government. Religious Ulemas as well as members of the communist party (of course they were not saying they were communists) also were among the candidates.
The change of governments and the broadcasts of the proceedings of the national asselmbly on the radio aroused the'interest of the young people to politics.
In addition to papers owned by the State, several private papas were also published. Different political groups published their own papers.
Those years witnessed continued agitation in schools, Kabul Universities and factories. This provided platforms for different groups to spread their ideas.
The common aim of all the groups was a strong desire for change. The backward economy, corruption in the government and social injustice provided different groups with a cause to go to the people and seek their support The first people who were approached by these groups were young people in schools and universities.
In the early stages of this phase, the leftist parties were in a dominating position. They were organized and equipped with necessary knowledge to attack the establishment and propose communist solutions to the problems. The Government was in hopeless position. It did not have any organized group to defend its position. The official media had lost its appeal to the new generation.
The traditional clergy was not
equipped with the right type of weapons to defend Islam, and the spiritual leadership was also facing similar problems. Attempts by sc»ne individuals and small groups could gather enough strength due to the wrong approach or to their connection the traditional establishments.
The government gave freedom of action to the communist groups to please the Soviets from whom it was getting economic and military aid.
There was also a second reason fa the monarchy to give a free hand to the communist activists and that was the fear of the regime of the Islamic clergy. Although the apposition to the regime was not open the potential danger always existed. The regime wanted to use the communists to weaken the clergy and it was not worried about the strength of the communists themselves.
Islamists in schools and government offices saw die need for an organization to defend Islam against the onslaught of and-Islamic forces. They saw the indifference of the government towards this dangerous development This is why the Islamic movement took an anti-communist and an antiestablishment stand from the very beginning.
To form such an organization there was a need for individuals who had an Islamic background and had a will to start the struggle. Finally such a group was formed and the Islamic movement entered the political life of the country.
The Islamic movement needed the support of enlighted Islamic scholars. These scholars came from the faculty of Islamic law. Prof. Ghulam Mohammad NianiProf. Burhanuddin Rabbani,
Prof. Ssyaff and others, helped the movement a great deal. These people had studied in Egypt and had cone in contact with the Islamic movemen (Muslim Brotherhood). Because of this connection, the communists called the Islamic movement in Afghanistan Ikhwanis( Brotherhood). The Islamic movement also made use of the books written or translated by Iranian scholars and the books written by Maulana Maoudoodi of Pakistan.
The student leaders like Abdul Rhim Niazi, Habib-u-Rahman, Dr. Umar, Saifoddin Nasratyar and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and tens of others played a key role in consolidating the foundation of the newly established Islamic movement
The Islamic movement which initially called itself Jawanan-e-Musulman (Muslim Youths), took root in a volatile situation. On the one hand it needed to equip its members with the right knowledge to defend Islam against the onslaught of communists; on the other hand it was trying to maintain its independence. The leftists branded the Islamic Movement "the agents of Weston Imperialism" and "the defenders of the privileges of the upper classes." A close look at the structure of foe Movement revealed that its members were ordinary people who wanted change based on the tenets of Islam.
To prove its independence the movement adopted extreme measures. When the movement burned the Russian flag in foe university campus to protest against Soviet influence, .it also burned the flag of a Western country in the same meeting to show that it was independent Some of foe extreme positions that foe movement took in regard to some spiritual families was a self-defense measure, but it created rift between the movement and these families which still continues.
Some mistakes committed by communists helped foe new Islamic movement to become more popular. The communist attacked Islamic values. They even threw the Holy Quran out of foe mosque in Kabul University and started to attack the members of the Islamic movement to scare them.
This brought a backlash which was very costly to the communists. Not only they lost the battle in the campus but faced severe reaction from the people all over Afghanistan.
As the Islamic movement picked up momentum, the communists changed their tactics and concentrated on working in foe armed forces and
Turn to page (8)