RFGHRN HEU8 TOL.IIt, H0.6&7, 1/V t»7 PROS 3
 - Hairatan Road
 10/2/1987. Mujahideen from Jamiat in Balkh district attacked the enemy post in Charsang area. Seven soldiers were captured with their weapons.
 3/3/1987. Mujahideen destroyed a poorer distribution center. Power for Mazar is coming from the Soviet Union. The enemy suffered heavy losses in men and material but no details are available.
                                            PAKTIA PROVINCE
 23/3/1987. Mujahideen of the area, a group from each party, jointly attacked five government outposts in the Khost district of Paktia province. According to Jami'at Office in Miramshah, three outposts, called Sheena Kan da, Way Dand and Padshah Gul * Kut, were totally destroyed and the other two namely Tora Lota and Landi Meena partially captured.
 The operation started at 400 Am. and lasted upto about 8:00 Pm., the source said. Three outposts were a real threat to Mujahideen supply routes for more than four months.
 12 DRA soldiers were killed and 230 captured. Six Mujahideen including two group commanders from Jamiat were seriouslay injured.
                                            HERAT PROVINCE
 In a joint operation Mujahideen of ail groups attacked government strategic border posts at Qezel Islam on March 4th, As a result all the posts were captured, two tanks and 14 trucks were burnt. 23 enemy soldiers killed, 40 injured and 20 captured. Two trucks and about a 100 different light weapons were seized. Two Mujahideen were martyred and five injured.
 On the same day Mujahideen of Herat attacked another border post at Joynaw, (One Km North of Islam Qala) in which two trucks were destroyed and two soldiers killed.
 Next day, on March 3th Mujahideen of Herat attacked some security posts at KalaU-e-Barichi and Kalata-e-Purbuzha (about 7-8 Km North of Ialam Qala). In which 13 soldiers along with their weapons were captured.
                                          JA WZJAN PORO VINCE
 14/2/1987. Mujahideen from Jamiat attacked the enemy post in Baqawi village near Sheberghan city. Two puppet officers were killed and seven others injured. Three soldiers surrendered and brought 3 Ak-47s with them. One Mujahid was martyred and two others wounded.
 4/3/1987. The enemy attacked Mujahideen positions in Ch&r-Kool village. After severe fighting the enemy retreated There are no details about the casualies of the two sides.
                                            PARYAB PROVINCE.
 4/3/1987. According to a report from Faryab Mujahideen and the communist forces clashed in the Sheereen Tagab district. Fighting continued for eleven days. Mujahideen destroyed 4 tanks and three trucks, 22 soldiers were captured along with their weapons. Enemy casualties are reported to be heavy but no figures are yet given.The enemy airforce bombed the villages as a result of which a large number of houses were destroyed. 7 Mujahideen were martyred and 16 others injured.
                                            KUNAR PROVINCE
 2/3/1987. Mujahideen from Jamiat under the command of commader Afsar attacked the