AFGHANews V615, No 12, June IS, 1989, page 0
Wise leadership, moderate policy can solve Afghanistan problems
In addition to a broad-based nature.
Only a wise leadership and a moderate policy can take Afghanistan out of the present uncertain situation.
The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan has created many domestic and international issues far Afghans which need careful handling.
The war in Afghanistan destroyed the political system of that country. The Soviets failed to replace it with a client regime and the Mujahideen have a long way to go to fill the gap.
The war also has destabilized Afghan society. A large number of people live in exile and some others are displaced in their own country. The majority support the Mujahideen but there are a considerable number of people who have taken sides with the regime for one reason or another.
The invasion and consequent fighting has devastated the country and has destroyed its economic system. The major problem will be reconstruction of the country. Funds and manpower are needed to do the job.
Big expectation, of the people after die liberation will add to die difficulties of the country. Those fighting for liberation want to see the benefit of their struggle in the form of a better economic life.
To deal with these issues, Afghans need a stable central government, formation of the interim government by the Mujahideen is a step in the right direction but more is needed to be done.
A stable government will be formed when all sections of the Afghan society support it The present government has to include the Iran-based eight-party coalition and others before it can credibly claim to enjoy the status of a broad-based government
Representation from all sections of society must be translated at all levels of the government structure. This needs the collective attention of the parties. One should not see repetition of what happened for selecting members of the consultative body. In that council the number of delegates salt by provinces bordering Pakistan provided the majority of the delegates in the Council. This caused dis-satisfaction among some Afghans.
Since the interim government is at the beginning of its organizational work, it must act carefully or face tremendous difficulties in the future.
the government must adopt a balanced domestic policy. Injustice towards a group of people or a special geographical area could cause amplications. The people all over Afghanistan expect fair treatment from a government formed by the Mujahideen.
It is important for the president, prime minister and ministers of the Interim government to familiarize themselves with different sections of the society and differentiate between a political party and the government
They should contact the field commanders to get to know them and gain their support for the interim government. The commandos' cooperation with the interim government depends on the way the government treats them.
If the government is able to secure the support of people, inside and outside, the rest of the work becomes easy.
The interim government also faces complicated international problems. Before the Soviet invasion Afghanistan was a non-aligned country with normal relationship with its neighbors and the rest of the world. The Soviet invasion ended that status and there is a need for a sound foreign policy which suits the country.
While Afghans will not consider the Soviet Union a friendly country, they have to live with it as their neighbor. Fortunately most of the resistance parties have stated that they are in favor of a normal relationship with Soviet Union if that country stops interference in the affairs of Afghanistan.
The war has brought Afghans close to the outside world. Five million refugees live in Pakistan and Iran. The tremendous political and humanitarian help these countries have given to the Mqjahideen will always be appreciated by Afghans.
The moral and material support of the Islamic countries, western democracies and the rest of the world will be remembered by Afghans. Afghans like to enjoy cordial relations with all these countries. The interim government needs to seek the support of these countries in the reconstruction of the country.
In formulating a suitable foreign policy for Afghanistan, the government should take into account the sensitive geographical location of Afghanistan.
The countries which we want to
have good relations with have their own {References. Their specific and diverse national interests makes the wrak of the new government of the Mujahideen difficult
In the past ten years we have been dealing with this delicate situation quite successfully. For example, the resistance enjoyed good relationships with both Iran and America who. had their differences of opinion on the issue.
Afghanistan needs stability and peace to deal with its domestic issues. It can not turn into a battle ground for rival powers.
Every country has its own national interest and our national interest must be preferred in dealing with outside countries.
It is hoped that the friendly countries realize the need of such an independent policy and continue to support Afghanistan to emerge as a non-aligned, independent and 'Islamic country.
It is in the best interest of all our neighbors, including die Soviet Union, to see an independent and stable Afghanistan. Let us hope that Mr. Gorbachev, having learned lessons from his country's failure in Afghanistan, will not create further problems for it.
Those countries who have supported in our struggle for liberation should continue their unconditional support for rebuilding Afghanistan.
A wise leadership and a moderate policy will steer Afghanistan out of the present imcertaiif situation.
Afghan lawyers form Union
The Union of Afghanistan Lawyers was set up in Peshawar for die first time in a decade on May 23, an AMRC correspondent reported.
Over 100 lawyers and judges of Afghanistan attended the Tuesday meeting. Abdul Jabbar Sabit was elected head of Union. Nimatullah Shahrani was elected deputy and Rizwan Mohammad as the secretary of the Union.
Sabit, head of the Union, told AMRC correspondent that the union of Lawyers was framed to fill the legal vacuum caused by the Soviet occupation.