Pit ■ SIM
mm®
'■■ !
M1®!®
Published fortnightly by J
Vol 7, No 14
July 15,1991
POOR ECOMOMY WORRIES NflJIB
A German journalist has described the economic situation in Kabul as worrying. In an article published in a Frankfort paper, he says Afghan currency has lost its value and the weight of banknotes paid for goods equals that of the merchandise.
Most people eat tea and bread three times a day, and only lucky ones find sugar, the reporter adds.
The German journalist says one meets many quarrelsome and depressed people in different parts of Kabul. The poor economic situation is the cause of their depression. The farmers who grow vegetables do not eat them because they have to sell them to buy essential commodities they need.
US dollars buy 950 Afghanis. People who exchange currency carry the money away in sacks. Those involved in the exchange of currencies have made a lot of money.
The poor economic situation has paralyzed the government Officers take bribes and misuse their positions. The salary they receive is not enough to feed them.
The government is becoming worried about the situation, because it has no source of revenue and the Soviet Union find it difficult to continue its economic support to Kabul.
The most important feature of Kabul's market is the presence of a’ large number of children who work to feed their families. Children play the role of fathers in the war-ton Afghanistan. Ordinary people have lost their hope in peace and reconciliation.
Bern launches peace offensive
Klaus Jacobi, the Foreign Minister of Switzerland, visited Kabul and Peshawar in a bid to find a political settlement for the Afghan conflict.
He went to Kabul on July 11, at the invitation of the Foreign Minister of the regime. During his three-day stay in Kabul, he met with Najib, the head of the Kabul regime, Abdul Wakil, Foreign Minister, General Yaqoubi, the Minister of State Security, and a number of Afghans who work for the return of the former king. He had visited Moscow before coming to Kabul.
In Islamabad, Jacobi met with Wasim Sajjad, the Chairman of the Senate, and Akram Zaki, the Foreign Secretary of Pakistan, and discussed with them ways of ending the conflict in Afghanistan.
Jacobi spent two days in Peshawar during which he met with a number of Mujahideen leaders, including Prof. Rabbani. He also met with some Afghan field commanders and intellectuals.
" I initiated my peace mission at the request of Afghans living in Switzerland," Jacobi said. A staunch supporter of the former king had organized Jacobi's engagements in Peshawar.
Jacobi told Prof. Rabbani that he was not carrying any fresh proposals but was trying to speed up the peace process initiated by the UN. He emphasized that talks between Afghans should start as soon as possible and should include all sides. He was of the opinion that such talks could start with the participation of some groups, and the rest can join later. Those opposed to talks can remain out of it, but they should not create problems for it, he stated.
Jacobi said Switzerland did not have a particular interest in Afghanistan and what he wanted was the return of peace in that country.
Appreciating the Minister's interest in
Afghanistan, Prof. Rabbani said he supported any effort which would lead to a just solution of the Afghan problem. About the UN plan. Prof. Rabbani said inter-Afghan dialogue, envisaged in the UN plan, should not include the Kabul regime. The plan calls for the preservation of the Islamic character of Afghanistan. Afghanistan was an Islamic country but the communists tried to change it Therefore, Najib and his colleagues cannot be included in the proposed talk.
Jami'at's leader said that Najib and his colleagues have acted worse than Nazis. They are responsible for the killing of more than 1.5 million of their own people. Najib, as the head of KHAD, has been personally responsi ble for mass-murder of the Afghan people.
About Najib's strength. Prof. Rabbani said that he is weaker then ever before. He has lost the support of most of the leading figures of the communist party and fights against the people with the help of mercenaries who loot the people's property wherever they are sent. The criminal acts of regime's militiamen forced people in Herat and Kunduz to stage demonstration against the communists.
"Emphasis on participation of Najib in the peace process will jeopardize your mission," Prof Rabbani said.
He said that all the Mujahideen parties were united in opposition to Najib and his party. A representative of Zahir Shah who visited Peshawar recently said: "Giving Najib a role in the future of Afghanistan is national treason."
About the start of peace talks without the participation of some groups. Prof. Rabbani said it would not succeed. The groups left out will not join the process later even if they found it useful. He said if all parties could not come close together, the majority of the groups should get together for the peace process to succeed.