AFGHANews Vol7, No 17, September 1,1991, page ©
Soaring prices, floods retards CBR's reconstuction work
Engineer Kamaluddin, the Executive Director of Consultant Bureau for Reconstruction (CBR), a private non-profit organization, says the soaring prices of construction materials in Afghanistan and floods at beginning of the year have slowed down the pace of reconstruction projects started by his organization.
CBR planned to build three clinics in Panjshir. One of the clinics has been almost completed in Bazatak. Another clinic which was under construction in Khench was washed by floods forcing CBR to change its site to Safidchir. Work on this clinic has just begun.
Work oh Paryan clinic started when two brothers in Kawjan village gave a piece of their agriculture land for the clinic. Due to floods and high water in the Panjshir River, the road was cut in several places, making it difficult to transport cements and other construction materials for several months during the spring. This also delayed construction of the clinics.
Kamaluddin, who has just returned after a two-month trip to northeast Afghanistan, said that the price of cement has increased five times in one year. A 50-kilogram bag of Portland Cement sells for 4,500 Afghanis while it sold for only 1,000 one year ago.
He said construction work on three irrigation canals, one workshop and a bridge in Panjshir has been stopped due to lack of funds. These projects were financed by the Supervisory Council.
CBR is working on three clinics in the north. One clinic in Kalafgan sub-District has been almost completed. Another, in Keshm, is half-finished. Construction of the Eshkamesh clinic is still in its early stages.
Kamaluddin said CBR is facing problems getting bricks. The quality of bricks produced in Taliqan is low, and CBR failed to receive the bricks it had ordered from Khanabad due to fighting. Kamaluddin said each brick brought to the construction site costs 50 Afghanis.
The head of CBR said one of the problems he and other relief organizations are facing is the high prices of construction material. The construction cost of clinics, estimated one year ago, are far below the current costs. This problem compelled representatives of CBR, Afghanaid, VITA and the Supervisory Council to discuss the issue in a joint meeting in Taliqan. They fixed the current price of materials to
report to the donor organizations. They also decided to cooperate in lending equipment, material and services to each other. They agreed not to compete with each other in paying higher prices for the construction material. They also decided to hold monthly meetings to coordinate their work and avoid duplication.
Kamaluddin had gone to the North to negotiate with the SC about getting some of the bulldozers and other construction equipments captured in Khwaja Ghar. Some of this equipment is in working order, but some needs to be repaired. Use of this equipment will increase the speed of road construction and repair in the area.
The head of CBR said construction of two new clinics, one in Chal and another in Bangi, Takhar Province, will begin soon. All the clinics built by CBR are funded by World Health Organization (WHO). WHO has agreed to fund construction of 17 clinics in northeast Afghanistan.
Land mines still kill people in Panjshir
The Agriculture Committee of the Supervisory Council has lost one of its tractors in a mine explosion in Panjshir. The tractor was plowing an abandoned Soviet heliport when it hit a land mine. The driver of the tractor sustained minor injuries.
A Panjshiri child has been killed by an unexploded ammunitioa The child was playing with the bomb when it exploded and killed him. There are thousands of unexploded shells scattered all over the Panjshir Valley. In a separate incident, two boys were killed by a mine explosion in the mountains near Rukha. They were collecting wild mushrooms from an area which was used by the Soviets as a mountain-top post until 1988. UN mine clearing operarions have mx reached the valley yeL>
News from Battlefields
From page (2)
rocket launcher and one pistol.
• Eleven soldiers surrendered to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Mard Qala on August 17. They brought with them eleven Kalashnikov rifles and one rocket launcher.
•The Mujahideen of Mullah Naqibullah killed three KHAD personnel and wounded three, including one officer, and destroyed their jeep in Eidgah gate on August 10.
Ghore Province
•The Mujahideen of Jami’at under the command of Mawlawi Musa killed 12 enemy soldiers and captured four in Chekhcharan, the provincial capital, on August 18. Eight Mujahideen were killed and 15 were wounded in the attack.
•The Mujahideen clashed with the enemy forces in lower part of Chekhcharan on August 8 as a result of which 12 enemy soldiers were killec and many were wounded. Four Mujahideen lost their lives in the attack.
•Six Mujahideen were killed anc 18 were wounded by land mines when they launched an attack on the enemy post in Daulatyar area on August 2.
•The Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Mawlawi Abdul Wahid of Baghran attacked Shahrak District on August 17. They destroyed six security posts and inflicted heavy casualties on the enemy. The Mujahideen captured 15 enemy sol diers. Eight Mujahideen were wounded and two were killed in the attack.