AEGHANews Vol 4, No 9, May 1, 1988, Page 5
    Editorial...
  and monitor the programs.
     Any over-simplification of the situation and ignoring the realities on the grounds will lead to the failure of the program and further complication of the situation.
     In the past the UN has ignored the Resistance and has dealt with the puppet regime which is its member but it is not possible to do any practical work in regard to the rehabilitation and reconstruction ■without the involvement of the Resistance.
     ¥e understand the legal complications the UN is j facing in dealing with the situation in Afghanistan, j but rehabilitation end reconstruction is a practical problem which must be planned realistically.
     The UN agencies involved in the program may have 1 their symbolic offices in Kabul but they can not expect to do very much from that side. The only way is to carryout the bulk of operations from Pakistan and Iran where the refugees live and in cooperation with the Resistance parties which are based in these countries.
     The Resistance has developed a civil administration in the liberated areas and these superstructures could play a key role in the rehabilitation and reconstruction programs.
     It should be added that the reconstruction program that we have mentioned is of a development nature to let the peop-le produce their food in their own areas and build simple shelters. The major nationwide reconstruction work has to be postponed up to the fail of the regime and formation of a representative government.
     ¥e advise the UN against any program in which an humanitarian assistance should be used to consolidate the position of the regime in Kabul.
     The donor countries have to make sure that the money they contribute should help the refugees and not be used by the puppets to buy them.
     ¥e hope the UN authorities will not mistake Afghanistan for Geneva. There we were ignored and the deed was done behind our back. Here we are strong and powerful and can not be forgotten.
  Jami’at condemns Abu jehad's murder
   JAMI'AT Island leader has condemned the-assassination ol the Palestinian leader Abujehad.
   In an interview with Afghan News, Professor Rsbbani said; "We condemn the assassination of the PLO military commander who lias been struggling for the liberation of his homeland
for a long time".
   He said that from janu'at's standpoint, the current uprising of Palestinians against the occupatioaist forces of Israel is a new phase in their long straggle. Since the present uprising is taking place under the name of Islam, it represents the true nature of the Palestinian straggle
   THE FOLLOWING telegram was sent by prof. Ptahbani, leader of J ami'at Island. Afghanistan, to President Sis-ol-haq and Prime Minister Mohammad Khan June jo
   "I was extremely shocked and grieved by the enormous casualties caused by fire and explosions in Faisabad on Sunday. Please accept my heartfelt sorrow and sympathies for the tragedy.
   I also offer my condolences to your excellency, to the Pakistan government, to the victims of the tragedy and to all our Pakistani brothers. May Allah Almighty grant patiersce and fortitude to all in such trying moments."
 India closes Jalalabad consulate
  INDIA has closed its consulate in the Eastern city of Jalalabad in the wake of possible Soviet troop withdrawal from Afghanistan.
   Indian officials in Kabul have called it a temporary measure due to illness of the consulate staff, hut it is is believed that the decision has been trade due to Indian worries about the safety of the consulate officials after the Soviet troops have left the city which mil considerably weaken the Kabul regime there.