AFGHANews Vol 5, No 14, July 15,1989, page g
AFGHANews
?;EO,Bk	PSkSMipl:	(0521)
Editorial
Jami'at condemns violence in Mecca
The explosion of two bombs in the Holy city of Mecca which killed one person and injured 16 was a sacrilegious act undermining the sanctity of the Holy city.
The criminal act took place when Mecca was packed with 2 million pilgrims from all over the worldwho had come to perform haj.
Holy Mecca is declared by Islam a city of peace. Its trees cannot be cut and its wild animals are not allowed to be hunted.
Those who exploded the bombs killed and injured innocent people and created fear in the mind of worshipers. Those who shed unlawful blood and prevent people from worshipping Allah deserve punishment They are criminals and must be dealt with structly.
In the past ten years the holy city of Mecca has been witness to a series of violent incidents which has disturbed the peaceful nature of the city.
In 1979, a group of extremists seized control of the Grand Mosque. As a result of the clash between them and the security forces of the Kingdom more than 200 persons from both sides were killed.
In 1987, the clash between Iranian hajis and the security forces resulted in the killing of 400 people from both sides.
This latest bomb explosion is the third incident within ten years.
Who is behind the late incident is an open question. So far no group has claimed the responsibility for the explosions.
It could be the work of the enemies of Islam to create further divisions between Muslims. There is tension between Saudi Arabia, the protector of the Holy places of Islam and the Islamic republic of Iran. The incident might have been designed to increase tension between them.
It could be a politically motivated act of a terrorist group aimed at getting publicity.
This is guess works done from a distance. The culprits can be traced thorough investigation and this is the job of the security forces of Saudi Arabia to do it.
No matter what the motive behind the incident, the act is crinn-naL No cause could justify killing innocent people in the Holy land and create fear in the mind of worshippers. Jami'at condemns this act of terrorism in the Holy city.
We want to urge all our Muslim brothers, especially those in Saudi Arabia, to avoid hasty judgement about the suspects. We are afraid that due to existing problems between Islamic countries one may be tempted to suspect one Islamic country or the other of being behind the incident. Islam has ordered Muslims to investigate the incidents and avoid hasty judgement based on suspicions and rumors.
Once the culprits are identified through investigation the whole Muslim world will condemn them it and support appropriate action against them.
The security measures in the Holy cities are relatively good but there is a need for further measures to insure security of the worshippers.
Mecca and Medina must remain peaceful so that all Muslims could worship Allah in peace.
Prof. Rabbani visits Kunar province
The Jami’at leader dis< cussed reconstruction is sues with the people of Kunar when he visited that province on June 27.
Prof. Rabbani remained in Kunar four days, during which he visited the provincial capital, Asmar, Paich, Sarkany, Kbas Kunar, Sawky, Noorgul and Khaiwa districts.
In Asadabad, the provincial capital of Kunar he discussed reconstruction issues with the council (Shoora)-of Kunar which represents seven parties of the Mujahideen. He also met with people from the Jamilur Rahman group (a Wahabi organization) which has considerable influence in Kunar. The organization is not part of the Shoora. Prof. Rabbani encouraged them to unite with the rest of the Mujahideen.
In Asadabad he visited Kerala where several hundred people were massacred by the communist regime in 1978. Prof. Rabbani donated two million Afghanis to the council of Kunar.
He visited Asmar and Peach districts where he was received warmly by the Mujahideen. He discussed with the commander ways of reconstruction of the damaged villages, mosques and irrigation system.
During his visit to Khas Kunar he visited Shinkoory village. This was the village where Prof. Rabbani stayed one night when he was on his way to Pakistan in 1975 to avoid arrest by the communist regime. He met with the person who had given shelter to him in that difficult time and thanked him for his hospitality.
Prof. Rabbani also talked with the Mujahideen in Sawki, Noorgul and Shaiwa districts, which are close to Jalalabad.
The correspondent who accompanied Prof. Rabbani said the trip provided an opportunity for the professor, who is the minister of reconstruction oi‘ the interim government, to hear from the people their views about reconstruction of that province, which is totally under control of the Mujahideen.
During the trip Mawlawi Ghulam Rabbani, the governor of Kunar, accompanied the Jami'at leader, the people were of the view that attention should be paid to the reconstruction of destroyed villages and irrigation systems!
♦♦♦