i ALU A-1
r*ypo „
AFGHAN-
E WS
                  A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMl'AT 1SLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                            Post Office Bax No. 264, Peshawar- Pakistan.
                                 VoL II. No. 19. 1/10/1986.
                                   INTERVIEW WITH COMMANDER MAS00D
{Recently the well-known British journalist, Sandy Gall, visited Afghanistan and met Commnader Masood in Takhar province and interviewed him. Part of the interview was used fay the BBC persian service. Below aire extracts from this interview.)
Q. What are the militarty changes in the last four years in Afghanistan?
A. The most important change is the escalation of the war. Every year the war has become more severe. Both ( Mujahideen and the Russians) have increased their forces qualitatively and quantitatiyeiy.In the last four 'years the Russians have brought into Afghanistan troops who are more experienced and better trained. They also have more modern weapons. They use long range guns and heavy artillary. The Russians no doubt have gained more exprience in the last four years in Afghanistan. They use better tactics too.
Q. What kind of war is being launched by the Russians in Afghanistan?
A. Anywhere you go in Afghanistan you will face thousands of destroyed villages. Every day you can see in Afghnaistan that our villages are bombed by Russian fighter aircraft and shelled by Russian heavy and long range artillary. Every day you can see that crops are burned, animals killed and the people themselves massacred. Pressure on the civil population is much more than the pressure on the Mujahideen.This dearly shows the Russian s policy to either push the civil population to the rities under their control or force them to leave the country. I think that the Russians have started a war against the civilian population not just against the Mujahideen.
Q. What is your biggest problem?
    A. It is obvious that we are fighting against a super-power. Eight years of war can not be without big problems. But this year the main problem in the North would mainly be shortage of food. Unfortunatly we have had little rain in the North and also on 15th June , 1986 the Russians launched a massive offensive in the areas of Kundoz and Takhar provinces.Hundreds of harvests of the people were burnt and their irregation channels were delibrately destroyed.The people did not have a
o f