AFGHANews Vol 6, No 12, June 15,1990, page ©

Wisdom of sages

Small injustice by the great leads to great injustice by the small
It is related that Nowshirwan, being at a hunting lodge, was about to have some game dressed. As there was not any salt, a servant was sent to fetch some from a village. The monarch ordered him to pay for the salt, so that the exaction might not become a custom, and the village be empoverished.
Nowshirwan was asked, "From this trifle,what injury can ensue?" He replied, "Oppression was brought into the world from small beginnings, to which each newcomer added, until it has reached its present enormity. If the monarch eats a single apple from a peasant's garden, the servants will pull up the tree by the roots: and if the sultan orders five eggs to be taken by force, his soldiers will spit a thousand fowls. The iniquitous tyrant endures not, but the curses of mankind rest on him for ever."
When animals are better than men
I heard of a tax collector who stripped the houses of the subjects in order to fill the king's coffers, disregarding the maxim of the sages which says: "Whoever offends the Most High to gain the heart of a fellow-creature, God will make that very creature the instrument of his destruction."
The burning flame from wild rue raises no such a smoke as is brought by the sighs of the afflicted heart. They say that the lion is the king of beasts, and the ass the meanest of animals, but the sages agree, that the ass who carries loads, is preferable to the lion, which destroys mankind.
The poor ass, although devoid of understanding, nevertheless is very valuable on account of his burden-carrying. The laboring ox and the ass are better than men who injure their fellow creatures.
The king, on hearing of the tax-collector's base conduct, ordered him onto the rack, and tortured him to death. You will not win the king's favor unless at the same time you strive to gain the hearts of his subjects. If you wish for God's bounty, do good unto his creatures.
One whom he had oppressed passed by at the time of his execution, and said, "Not every one who possesses ministerial power and dignity can devour the property of men with impunity. One may swallow a sharp bone, but it will tear the belly when it sticks under the navel."
Kabul cabinet
The new cabinet of the Kabul regime is composed of 36 people, including the prime minister, deputy prime ministers and ministers.
The regime claims that only 12 of the ministers are members of the PDPA and that the rest are non-party people.
The key ministries of defense,
WAD (Secret Police), interior, information and foreign affairs have been given to the members of the PDPA.
The prime minister is Fazle Haq Khaliqyar, who has been awarded the title of the Hero of Afghanistan for his services to the Soviets and the regime, but who claims not to be a party man.
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
.. ^ <jt oOJ
A cheap thing doesn’t lack defect, nor an expensive thing quality.
Meaning: You get what you pay for.
Uwl Ji	Jm£	jl C >14
Vinegar that is free, is sweeter than honey.
Meaning: People love getting, something for nothing.
I uuxb jbljia Jo jS
Debt severs (is the scissors of) love.
Meaning: Lend money to a friend, and he'll become an enemy.
Where your heart goes there your feet will go.
Meaning: Home is where the heart is.
ipppp
off his face and say
lllllilll
iug, ”0 Allah! Forgife ray nation^ for
they have no knowledge.”;