AFGHANews Vol 6, No 13, July 1,1990, page ©
News
ittf
From The Battlefields
Kabul Province
The Mujahideen under the command of Faqir Mohammad captured the headquarters of the Qarabagh district on June 22, The military office of jami'at Islami reported.
The Mujahideen captured 300 soldiers and seized six tanks and armored cars, two trucks, 10 RPG-7 rocket launchers, eight PK machine-guns, 200 Kalashnikov rifles and a large quantity of ammunition. Details of the casualties of the both sides were not immediately available.
The siege of Qarabagh began 10 days before its fall. The Mujahideen first captured five security posts, located in the villages surrounding the garrison. Qarabagh is located 25 kilometers north of the Kabul city along the Kabul-Hahatan highway.
This is the second important district liberated by Mujahideen forces within a week. Chemtal District in Balkh Province was liberated by the Mujahideen from the Supervisory Council of the North on June 15.
• Fifteen soldiers and three officers of the regime were killed and one armored car was destroyed by the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Quli Maidan area of Paghman on June 18, Commander Mullah Ezat reported.
The communist fences had launched the attack to capture the area but were forced to retreat.
Ghore Province
The Mujahideen killed 16 militiamen- of the regime in Shahrak district on June 10.
The militiamen headed by Ebrahim Big attacked the areas controlled by the Mujahideen with heavy weapons, causing material losses to the
Balkh province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at liberated Chemtal District on June 15, Hindukush News Agency reported.
The Mujahideen killed 15 enemy soldiers and captured the governor of the district, its military commander and some soldiers.
In battle, lasting for two hours, one tank, one 2PU-1 machine-gun and the building of the district headquarters were destroyed. The Mujahideen seized 100 guns, one truck and some ammunition.
The attack was launched under the command of Mawlawi Alam, Jami'at chief commander in the province. Chemtal is located about 15 kilometers west of the provincial capital of Mazar-i-Sharif.
The regime forces tried to re-recapture Chemtal but Mujahideen forces repelled their attack.
• The Mujahideen from Jami'at killed 13 soldiers and officers, wounded 10 and captured eight, when whey attacked the Border Regiment of the regime. They seized six guns, three radios and some ammunition;
Faryab Province
Eighteen soldiers were captured, and nine guns and one rocket launcher were seized, when the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the regime security posts, 10 kilometers north of Maimana, provincial capital of the Faryab , on June 1st, HINA reported. The attack was launched under the command of Sayyed Allauddin. Two Mujahideen were wounded.
Ningarhar province
The Mujahideen crippled the Darunta hydro-electric power plant, 10 kilometers west of Jalalabad on June 12, MIDIA reported.
Destruction of the plant cut the supply of electricity to the city of Jalalabad which is besieged by the Mujahideen.
The operation has made fife difficult for regime garrisons in the city which relied on electricity from Darunta. The heat, which hovers around 40°C, and mosquitoesshould make the defenders of the city miserable, should they escape Mujahideen firing.
Samangan province
A jet belonging to the Kabul regime crashed about 15 kilometers away from the city of Samangan on May 29, Hindukush News Agency reported.
The pilot who ejected, was captured by the Mujahideen when he landed in Lake Gana village. The pilot, whose identity was not revealed, was armed with a pistol.
The source did not say wether the plane crashed itself, or it was shot
Soviet plane shot down
A Soviet transport plane was forced to crash land after it was hit by a Mujahideen missile over the Salang highway on June 12, the BBC reported.
The Soviet AN-76 was one of at least 20 planes bringing daily supplies to Kabul from Tashkent.
The missile hit a machine, debilitating the hydraulic system that operate the landing mechanism. The pilot was forced to land the plane on it’s belly. Two crew members of the plane were injured during landing.
The plane was carrying 20 tons of fuel, which could have been liquid explosive for SCUD missiles stationed in Kabul.
Earlier, the Kabul regime declared the Mujahideen were planing to shoot down Soviet transport planes in the area.
Heat kills 54 refugees
Severe heat has killed at least 54 refugees in the camps near Peshawar, MIDIA reported. Most victims of the heat wave are children and the elderly. In the past few days temperatures in Peshawar rose to 113 F° (45 Q. Power cuts (load-shedding) during the day added to the misery of the refugees.