AFGHAN
NEWS
                  A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                            Post Office Box No. 264. Peshawar- Pakistan.
                                 VoLlI.No. 24, 15/12/1986.
                                SOVIETS VERSUS MUJAHIDEEN IN 1986
                                                                 0
 27th December marks the 7th anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Since that time a bloody war has continued, with no side in a position to claim final victory Although the Mujahideen have failed to push the Soviets out of their country (something no body expected them to do) sThe Soviets have failed to crush the resistance despite unbridled use pf force and the destruction of the economy of the country Let us look closely at the developments of the military and political situation in 1986 to be able to predict the course of events in the comming year.
 MILITARY SITUA TION
 The Soviets wanted io achieve the following military aims in 1986
       1- Cut Mujahideen's external and internal communication network.
       2- Drive out Mujahideen from some major strongholds.
       3- Destablize the tribal areas in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
 They had the above three points in mind for the offensives which they launched in the North, East South-East, South and West of Afghanistan.
 They had a symbolic victory in jawar (highly publicized by the Soviet and Western media); they could manage to create some problems around Qandahar city, by establishing some new posts and they devastated the areas around city of Herat in a long operation to drive the Mujahideen out. In these operations the Soviets suffered heavy casualties and failed to achieve what they wanted The enemy could not totally cut the supply routes, but what they did was to make them more risky by repeated ambushes and by establishing some new posts Enemy offensives around Kabul and in the North faced failure
 What the enemy expected in the Tribal belt did not happen The flow of arms and money to buy off some sections of the tribes, and extensive propaganda by their agents in Afghanistan and Pakistan did not turn the the tribal people to being friends of the Soviets and the enemy of the Mujahideen
 Soviet attempts to strengthen the position of the puppet regime failed. The regime is plauged by desertion of troops: factional tensions and incompetence in performing given duties The last four months of the year were very embarrassing for the new leader of the puppet regime when the two garrisons of the enemy in the North were captured one after the other Operations in Kabul city proved that the Soviets have not been able to secure even Kabul with the presence of 50.000 troops stationed around it
 Soviet morale is not high and;that of the puppets is very low