1 CM THE HAH» Of AlHICBn A1LAH |
AFGHANnews
          A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264. PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                VOL. Ill, NO. 18, 15/9/1987.
                             WHY DO SOME PAKISTANI POLITICIANS DANCE TO RUSSIAN MUSIC
Russians seem to have openned a new front in their political -war in Afghanistan: inviting Pakistani politicians to visit Kabul and Moscow. After ANP leaders, whose association with -. Moscow is quite clear and their frequent trips to the communist countries do not interest anyone any more, the leader of Tahrik Isteqlal was the first one to take the initiative of travelling to Kabul. Then Mdulana Kausar Niazi travelled to the Soviet Union to-be followed by a trip to Kabul.~akhar imam also accepted invitation tb Moscow and Kabul and will start his trip next month. Maulana Ahmad Shah Noorani is also mentioned as a candidate for travelling to Moscow and Kabul.
Why do the trips take place at this time and what aims do Russians hope to achieve?
It seems that the Russians extended their invitations not recently, but several months ago. Fakhar Imam mentioned this fact and brought an excuse why he did not respond earlier. His excuse might be genuine. It is also possible, however, that the politicians did not accept the invitations at that time for they felt the mood of the country was anti-Russian. Because of numerous bomb explosions accompanied by anti-government and anti-refugee demonstrations in the last few months, however, they hope the mood has changed now.
The timing of the invitlons clearly shows that they are part of Russians' latest propaganda offensive and political manoeuvres' which were launched in January this year. The Russians hoped that the trips of Pakistani politicians to Kabul would provide their puppet regime with the badly-needed legitimacy (a strange way of legitimization, indeedt). They also hoped that they could use the politicians as propagandists for their so-called "ceaze-fire" and "national reconciliation" schemes. The politicians would have also certainly put pressure on the Pakistani government to give in to the Russian demands and to agree with a "solution" of the Afghanistan problem favorable to the Soviet Union.
Russians certainly had a late start in using Pakistani politicians in favor of their puppets in Afghanistan. Moreover, it seems doubtful the trips coul/d bring any legitimacy to the Kabul regime. The real source of legitimacy is the people.
When 99 percent of the people of a country are against a re-gim, no power in the world could legitimize i.ts .rule.
in using the Pakistani politicians as £heir propagandists and pressure group, however, Russians seem to be successful. Even before the trips took place, many opposition parties in