6FQHHH HEUS UOti.HH., HO, 10^ IWWBftPBOE 5
 Mujahideen whose friendly manners had made him dear to all. He was a sharp shooter in mortars. His first round hit the target. The death of these people gaven a sad look to the town.
 The Soviets had burned all sorts of books, miied different types of food together to make them useless, killed the cattle for fun and looted the property of the people. There were about three hundred shops in the town. Most of the valuable goods of the shops were loaded in tanks and trucks and taken away.
 Watching all the above, I recalled the university days when communist students and teachers painted a human face for the communist system and presented the Soviet citizens as morally superb. What we had seen from the Soviets, however was totally different. They did not respect the worship places of the people and even degraded their holy books. They killed every one including old men and women and in some cases burned them alive. They took away the valuable things and burnt what they were not able to take They killed all the cattle in the town. A journalist present at the time said, “ The students of Marxism-Leninism should come here to learn the true way of communism".
 Soviet soldiers can be hold responsible for what they do but the real criminals are their political leaders who authorize invading other countries The big criminal was Breznev who sent Soviet troops to Afghanistan. The biggest criminal, however, is Gorbachev who has continued the unjust war in Afghanistan for more than two years but still tries to pose as a peace-lover
                       KAHLIS THE CURRENT SPOKESMAN OF THE ALLIANCE
                                                    v
 The Council of the Alliance met on May 5 and chose the Current Spokesman of the Alliance. The new Spokesman will be Mr Younus Khalis, the leader of Hezb-e-lslami (Khalis group). The Council also extended the term of the Spokesman from three months to six months
 The Council also discussed the problem of forming a General Council for the Alliance and other important political issues We wish every success to the current Spokesman of the Alliance and want to mention that consolidation of the Alliance is of the utmost importance to the Resistance The respectable leaders of.the Resistance should try to show their unity in action and intention.
 The Alliance of the Mujahideen which represents the absolute majority of the people of Afghanistan must play an important role in the political field. This is only possible if the Alliance is united and prepares a sound and practical political program.
                             ROAD TRANSPORTATION IN AFGHANISTAN
 Roads are the most common and economic means of transportation in Afghanistan. There are no rail roads in the country Waterways do not exist either. Transportation by air is limited and very expensive Roads remain the only reliable means of transportation
 Afghanistan, being an under-developed country, has very few paved roads It is a mountainous country and the conditions of existing roads are very bad. There are three main roads which are controlled and used by the Soviets and their puppets.
    1- Salang highway, connecting Kabul to the Soviet border
    2- Kabul-Jalalabad road, connecting the capital to Pakistan,
    3- Kabul-Qandahar and Qandahar-Herat highway, connecting Kabul to the West and South-Western parts of Afghanistan.
 There are two other sections which are of secondary importance.
    1- Kunduz-Faizabad, connecting Kunduz to Takhar and Badakhshan provinces.