---------------------AFGHANews	Vol 5, No 4, February 15,1989, page 6
Evolution of the Islamic Movement in Afghanistan	Part	(4)
Life in exile from 1975 to 1978
I and my brother arrived in Peshawar in the fall of 1975. We were given new names so that our true identity should not be revealed
Friends were living in two houses in the city. First I met Gulbuddin Hikmatyar who was my college classmate.
The next day I visited Prof, itabbani who was living with some friends in a separate building.
Two days after our arrival one of the friends started to talk about differences among brothers. He was criticizing the operations launched against the Daud regime and attributed their failure to improper planning.
This was surprising to me. I asked Masood about it and he told me that there were problems.
As the time passed it became clear that friends had been divided into two groups. One group was headed by Gulbuddin Hikmatyar and other by Prof. Rabbani, the leader of Jami'at.
There was a group of friends who were trying to solve the problems. They were acting as mediators. Commander Masood and Nasrullah (who was later captured and killed by the communist regime) were busy doing this job.
I asked Hikmatyar about the problems. He described how some people were demoralized and made unfair remarks against the armed struggle against Daud's regime. He complained that those people were close to Prof. Rabbani.
Prof. Rabbani as usual never spoke about the differences. It seemed that he did not want to make diem public.
I did not take sides with any group and started to do what I could to support the cause.
There were more than 100 single Mujahideen and about three hundred families.
The Bachelor Mujahideen were from different parts of Afghanistan but the families came mainly from the provinces of Kunar, Ningarhar and Paktia.
From talking to both sides, I started to understand the root cause of the problems.
In 1974 Prof. Rabbani who was the leader of the movement managed to get out of the country. Gulbuddin Hikmatyar and other friend also joined him. After getting assurance of support from the Pakistani authorities, they started to work. Prof. Rabbani was the
undisputed leader of the Movement and beside other friends Hikmatyar was also involved.
The movement decided to arm some of its members and use them at a proper place and time.
Prof. Rabbani went to Saudi Arabia to plead his cause with the leaders of the Muslim world. He stayed in Saudi Arabia for six months.
These six months provided a good opportunity for Hikmatyar to establish himself among friends. Friends were brought to undergo a short period of training. To those who were aware of the organizational structure he always showed obedience to Prof. Rabbani but to the new ones he claimed to be the leader.
Prof. Rabbani sent some letters to friends in Peshawar cautioning against hasty military actions against the Daud regime. These letters were used against him as a sign of compromise with Daud a proof of abandoning the revolutionary path.
When prof. Rabbani arrived in Peshawar he was told that the plan for action was ready. When he asked questions about the feasibility of the operations he was answered with revolutionary slogans. Probably it was not possible for the Professor to do anything at that moment. Attacks were launched in Panjshir, Kunar, Ningarhar, Laghman and Paktia.
In Kunar a few communists were killed. Laghman was a disaster. Most of those involved were captured before they launched the operation. In other areas also the actions were not successful.
Militarily speaking the whole .operation was a failure. It came to a quick end with a lot of losses .
No doubt there was a legitimate reason for criticisms. But those who were responsible refused to answer. This attitude led to the division of Jami'at. A new group under the leadership of Hikmatyar was formed which was named Hezb Islami Afghanistan (the Islamic Party of Afghanistan ).
The new party adopted an aggressive approach. It published leaflets and booklets revealing the differences. Prof. Rabbani refused to do a similar thing. He was afraid that writing about these differences could lead to to permanent division.
Both groups tried to organize their followers both in exile and in the country. A limited amount of educational work started. They also started to organize cells in the countrty and work
within die army.
Life in exile provided a good opportunity to look back at what had happened . This gave opportunity to some people to read about other movements and the way they were fighting. These efforts paid off and one can see the result of that in the organized work shown by commander Masood.
There were basic differences in each group’s approach to the problems facing the movement. At that time it was difficult to explain the differences but later Jami’at and Hezb showed in action that despite general allegiance to basic principles of Islam they had different way of reaching their aims.
A study of the ways these parties conducted the war, organized themselves, dealt with the people and treated their enemies will clarify the difference between the two.
The three years in exile, from 1975 to 1978, was a depressing period. It was depressing because of the division inside the movement and lack of positive activities.
Despite the general depression these three years were very educative. It opened our eyes about the hard realities of our society and the difficulties we were facing to achieve our aims. It gave us opportunity to look at other movements which had undergone similar experiences. It was a period to test friends in the real world.
The coup of 1978 changed the situation. Within a few days people started to flee the country. The two parties, Jami'at and Hezb provided sanctuary for them. The communists’ oppressive rule was pushing the people to extreme choice of taking arms and the Movement became a source of hope for these people.
The members of the Islamic movement moved back to the country with few guns and started to lead the uprising against the communist regime.
The same people who had raised against the movement in 1975, become its supporters. Why such a big change had taken place in such a short span of time? The answer to that was the oppressive rule of the communists who forced the people to take sides with the movement.
This fact rejects the claims of the Soviets and the communists that the regime became a target of subversive activities from outside. The internal situation for armed uprising was ripe anc
Turn to page (5)