
ws
Published fortnightly by Jami’at Islami Afghanistan
Vol 5, No 16 &17
September 1, 1989
Islamic court to try Jamal, his men for Farkhar massacre
Najib's bodyguard defects to Mujahideen
General Mohammad Zarif Farooq who was responsible for the physical protection of Najibullah and his polit-buro members has defected to the Mujahideen.
In a press conference organized by the Afghan Interim Government on August 20, the regime's General said that he was the head of the Government Security Department a subsidiary of WAD (the Ministry Secret Police of the Regime).
According to General Farooq his department had 3,000 men who provided physical protection for high-ranking regime officers including the president.
He disclosed that members of the Khalq faction of the regime did not trust his department. They arranged for their own security.
General Farooq revealed that two Soviet security officers provided protection for Najibullah even after the withdrawal of Soviet troops.
Farooq who became a member of the Parcham faction three years ago said that he found the policies of Najibullah against the interest of the Afghans and this was the reason for his defection.
He left Kabul with his family under the pretext of medical treatment abroad.
Seminar to discuss Afghanistan
The second seminar on Afghanistan will open in Tehran on October 2.
The two-day seminar is sponsored by the foreign ministry of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Dr. Ebrahim Behnam visited Pakistan at the head of a delegation to extend an invitation to different Afghan parties to participate in the seminar.
It is expected that in addition to Afghan and Iranian scholars, scholars from other countries will also attend the seminar.
Sayed Jamal under the command of whom the Farkahr massacre of Jami'at commanders was carried out was arrested by the Mujahideen from Jami’at on August 18 and was handed over to the judicial authorities of the Supervisory Council.
Jamal's arrest and a large number of his followers who had participated in the massacre happened after some minor armed clashes which continued for few hours.
The demoralized friends of Sayed Jamal abandoned him and the civilian population in the area refused to support him.
Search operations for the arrest of Sayed Jamal and a few of his top friends who had hidden themselves continued for one week.
Contrary to the claims of Hezb the operation which led to the arrest of Sayed Jamal had few casualties among the Mujahideen on both sides and the civilian population suffered no casualties.
Jami'at forces who participated in the operation acted in a disciplined way. No personnel revenge was taken.
Prisoners were treated well. They were provided with food, water and medical assistance. This behavior was admired by the local people, foreign journalists and members of other Mujahideen parties in the area.
The prisoners whose number were about 100 were delivered to the judicial authorities of the council for interrogation.
After Jamal's arrest the Takhar-Badakhshan road was opened. When Jamal controlled Tangi Farkhar trucks could only pass after giving 10,000 Afghanis to his men. The city of Taloqan, the provincial capital of Takhar resumed its normal activities.
Taloqan is the biggest city which
the Mujahideen control. To the surprise of the people, radios quoting Hezb authorities in Peshawar reported that Jamal and his friends were arrested by government troops and handed over to Masood. All those in the area knew that there was no government presence in that area.
After Jamal's arrest a large number of people filed petitions against Jamal and his men accusing them of killing their relatives taking their property and other misconducts. The petitions will be given to the judicial delegation sent by the AIG.
Commander Masood met with commanders from Jami’at and other Islamic parties in the city of Taloqan to discuss with them the issue of reorganizing the city and launching military operations against the regime.
All the commanders authorized the Council to re-organize the city. This was necessary because in the past the city which was liberated was relatively unsafe due to the presence of a large number of armed groups belonging to different parties. Fortunately the city of Taloqan had escaped destruction during the fighting which led to its liberation last year.
Meanwhile some bands who looted people property and created fear in the city were also arrested. These bands who were disguised as Mujahideen actually were regime agents who wanted to defame the Mujahideen. Habib Chereek and Shiro's deputy who led these criminal bands were arrested and delivered to the judicial authorities to try them.
To defuse the tension Masood sent a delegation to Hezb commanders in the neighboring areas to assure them that the operation against Jamal was not directed against any other commander of Hezb.