Vol 5, No 20	October	15,	1989
General Assembly to pass consensus resolution on Afghanistan
A Soviet general has named four men as the major figures responsible for the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. They include Yuri Andropov, the former KGB chief who later served for a brief term as Soviet leader.
Former leader Leonid Brezhnev, former Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko, former Defence minister Dmitri Ustinov and Mr. Andropov were the main officials behind the December 1979 invasion, General Kim Tsagfolov said in the latest edition of the theoretical weekly 'Argumenty-i-Fakty.’
The first three have been linked previously to the decision to send the Red Army into Afghanistan. But it was the first time Mr. Andropov, KGB chief until 1982 and widely considered spiritual predecessor of the current reformist leader Mikhail Gorbachev, had been named
Other, lower-ranking officials also played a part in the "Afghan Adventure" Gen. Tsagfolov said, although "many now say they were against it."
Separately, Aleksandr Dzasokhov, Chairman of the Supreme Soviet's committee on International Affairs, has called for a detailed account of the decisions underlying the invasion to be made public at the end of this month of early in November.
He made the call in Sunday’s edition of the Communist Party daily Pravda.
Commander killed on Salang highway
Qari Kamaluddin, Jami'at commander in Salang, was martyred on October 1 in combat with the communist forces.
He was a brave commander who had scored many gains against the Russian and communist forces in the past ten years.
See obituary on page (3)
The stage for passing a consensus resolution on Afghanistan, similar to last year's resolution, has been set at the UN General Assembly in New York.
At the end of the current month or the beginning of next month, the resolution will be put to vote without debate.
Pakistan has been struggling to get such a resolution. Senior Minister Nusrat Bhutto and Foreign Minister Yaqub Khan were in New York to take part in discussions of the session of the General Assembly.
A meeting of foreign ministers of the Islamic countries in New York called for intra-Afghan dialogue to form a broad-based’government in Kabul.
Pakistan's delegation asked for transfer of power to a broad-based government
The US foreign minister told the general assembly that peace will come with the transfer of power, not by sharing it.
The Soviet foreign minister called the Afghan problem an internal issue. The foreign minister of the Kabul regime accused Pakistan of violating the Geneva Accords, which was rejected by Pakistan's representative.
It is reported that Pakistan and Soviet Union have agreed on a consensus resolution calling for a braod-bascd government in Afghanistan, the right of Afghans to determine their future and the return of refugees in honor and safety.
The Islamic Interim Government has sent a five member delegation to New York to lobby for the Afghan seat in the UN.
The delegation is headed by Maulawi Younus Khalis and its members are Farooq Azam, Mohammad Yasar, Engineer Rahim and Sulaiman Shah.
The Afghan seat in the UN is occupied by the Kabul regime. Meanwhile the UN Secretary General, Javier Perez
de Cuellar, has talked of fresh ideas which will lead to a solution of the Afghan problem. But no detail of these thoughts has been made public yet.
While the Mujahideen accept the general terms of the consensus resolution, their interpretation of a broad-based government excludes the Kabul regime.
70,000 refugees enter Pakistan in eight months
As many as 70,000 Afghan refugees have crossed the Pak-Afghan border into Pakistan during the last eight months.
A high-level meeting of voluntary agencies was told in Peshawar last week that more assistance would be required to feed the new refugees.
The Acting Commissioner, Mr. Saeed Ahmad Akhtar, who chaired the meeting stressed the need for more assistance for the Afghan refugees in the NWFP. He said that the problem has not been solved with the withdrawal of the Soviet forces from Afghanistan.
A UN convoy of food and other essential commodities has started its journey towards Afghanistan through the Soviet Union.
The relief goods, worth $750,000, are donated by Finland, and die transportation cost is paid by the USSR.
Since the goods reach Afghanistan through the Soviet Union, the Mujahideen may not allow its distribution in the liberated areas. The goods have to be distributed in cities controlled by the Kabul regime.
The convoy will reach Afghanistan just before the winter. There is no agreement between the Mujahideen and the UN for the free passage of the goods from Kabul to their destinations inside Afghanistan.