AFGHANews Vol 8, No 3, February 1,1992, page ©
£S»;Si»H;snin£
liiiliifiiiii
Battlefields
Jawzjan Province Herat Province
The Mujahideen of Jami’at killed 12 militiamen of Dostum, wounded seven and captured 45 others when they attacked the enemy position in Sharm area of Sar-i-Pul District on January 14, Qazi Yasin reported.
They seized two trucks, two ZPU-1 machineguns, two P.K machineguns and one tank
Three Mujahideen were killed and eight sustained injuries.
Faryab Province
•The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed three enemy soldiers and wounded several others in Samlak area of Astana on January 10, Mawlawi Yusuf reported.
They seized one machinegun, eight Kalashnikov rifles, and some ammunition.
Four Mujahideen were injured in the fighting.
-The Mujahideen killed two enemy soldiers, captured three and seized one P.K. machinegun and four Kalashnikov rifles in Kata Qala of Shireen Taqab District on December 26.
•Thirteen soldiers were killed and some others were injured when the Mujahideen launched an attack on enemy position in Khwaja Quishri area of Shereen Tagab District on December 27, Mawlawi Yusuf reported. The Mujahideen seized one mortar, one RPG rocket launcher, one heavy machinegun, 15 Kalashnikov rifles and some ammunition.
•Two ranking officers of the regime, Major Shukrullah, the political commissar of Almar District and Mohammad Seddique, the director of Information Department of Almar, defected to the Mujahideen on January
19, Commander Arbab Hafiz reported.
• Shadi Khan, a regime militia commander, defected to the Mujahideen along with 1,400 of his men in Obe District on January 15, Commander Ismail Khan reported.
He brought with him 1,400 light weapons, 100 heavy weapons, one armored car and six trucks.
Thirty villages in the eastern part of Obe came under control of the Mujahideen.
•An enemy truck loaded with munitions was destroyed by a land mine, planted by the Mujahideen, in Dubardar of Adraskan District, on January 2, Commander Ismail Khan reported. All the occupants of the truck were killed.
On the same day, the Mujahideen of Jami'at killed one militiaman, wounded four and destroyed one machinegun belonging to the enemy in Dubardar of Adraskan using heavy weapons.
Samangan Province
•The Mujahideen of Jami’at, based in Kookchinar of Aibak, aborted an attempt by the Kabul regime to attack their base after poisoning their food. Commander Arshad Farid reported.
A regime agent had succeeded in poisoning the Mujahideen food as a result of which eight Mujahideen lost consciousness. They were treated in the local hospital. The agent was identified and arrested. He admitted his involvement in the crime and revealed that the regime was planning to launch an attack on their base.
The attack did not take place because of the arrest of the enemy agent. He is going to be tried.
•The Mujahideen of Jami’at captured three enemy soldiers and killed or wounded many others when they attacked a regime convoy in Ganj area of Khulm District on January 18, Commander Sad Bashi reported.
The Mujahideen seized two oil
tankers and some foodstuff from the convoy.
•The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed many soldiers and destroyed one security post of the the city of Aibak, the provincial capital of Samangan, on January 9, Commander Saifullah Khan reported. They seized one armored car from the enemy.
Ningarhar Province
•Sixteen people were killed and four were injured, when Kabul troops fired at a vehicle near Jalalabad on January 12, MIDIA reported.
The source said the pick up was set up on fire by a tank shell on the Kochiyan Road in Rodat District. The victims were residence of Jalalabad.
• Two commanders of the Kabul regime and 27 soldiers and militiamen were killed in armed clashes between Khalq and Parc ham faction in the eastern city of Jalalabad on January 16, MIDIA reported.
Momand Khan, a Khalqi, had imprisoned some militiamen belonging to Shokoor, affiliated to Parcham faction. The arrest caused aimed clashes between the two faction in which die two commanders and scores of their followers were killed.
Paktia Province
Lack of coordination between the commanders deprived the Mujahideen from a quick victory in Gardez.
Commander Jalaluddin Haqqani who is leading a big force in the attack on Gardez said in an interview, published in Jehad Hindara, a paper run by his office, that the Mujahideen failure to block the road at Tira Pass, between Logar and Gardez, was the main reason for the delay of the victory. He said some commanders who had promised to cut the road did not fulfill their promise. He said the. Mujahideen had advanced close to the city but faced fresh forces sent from Kabul. The cold weather also caused some problems far the Mujahideen too.
Arabs involved in Gardez and Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar claim that Haqqani did not join the attack in the first days despite the agreement reached with other commanders. They say the regime officers in Gardez had told Haqqani that if he did not launch an attack against Gardez, they would defect to him. This promise, a trick by the communists, delayed the attack by Haqqani.
Haqqani said that the regime troops defending Gardez are facing shortages of food and fuel.