.	--	  dtEOHANews	Voll	No	1?,	September	1,1988, Paged
Opinion by Abdul Wall [
Mujahideen score major victories in North
THE fait of the two provincial capitals of Takhar sad Kundua is an indication of the strength of the Resistance in the strategic Northern region.
As soon as the Soviet forces decided to leave Takhar and Kundua fighting against the poppet regime intensified. The poppet regime tried to consolidate its position by sending new troops. The new troops tried to establish new posts around Takhar provincial capital in mid-July hut faced the fierce Resistance of the local Mujahideen,
As a result they not only could not establish any new posts hut they lost the war and one hy one the three cities of Taiuqan, Khanabad and Kundug felt into the hands of the Mujahideen, the Mujahideen captured hundreds of guns and a large amount of military and non-military supplies.
The conflicting opinions expressed hy the Soviets and their puppets about the city of Qundus made the news about the liberation of that city a first-page story for the world media,
Kabul Radio in Its domestic services accused Jami'at Commander Arif Khan and Qari Rahmatuilah for what the radio called it "subversive activities of the extremist elements,"
Qunduz remained in the hand of the Mujahideen for one week. The Soviet troops attacked the city and their airforce bombed it heavily. According to the latest information available civilian casualties due to aerial and heavy artillery bombardments
have been considerably high and bombing still continues. Jami at which is a leading force in the region pisyed an important role in the fighting but other organisations present in the area were also involved,
it sould he made clear here that the liberation of the three cities in no way was a planned operation by the Supervisory Council of the North, it was a local initiative involving local forces. This is a clear evidence of the weakness of the enemy and the strength of the Resistance forces.
The battle for the liberation of the three cities has provided an opportunity for the Mujahideen to study the war of the cities and identify problems connected to it.
When the full force of the Mujahideen is deployed against the puppet regime it win not have any chances of survival. That day is not too far,
Explosion kills 11 refugees
ELEVEN Afghan refugees including five women were killed and three others were injured when their vehicle hit a landmine in Kuram Agency on August the 22th.
It is believed that the mine was planted by the Kabul regime agents bn the road where the vehicle carrying the refugees passed.
aBMnmnBmungnMHt
Regime blamed for increased terrorism
THE US State Department * annual report on terrorism says that the Kabul regime is responsible for much of the increase in state-sponsored terrorism.
According to the report the Soviet-control led secret police of the Kabul regime has carried out a series of bomb attacks in Pakistan which have kilted 23** people and Injured a large number of others In 1987,
The report does not blame the Soviets directly for terrorist activities in Pakistan but it is obvious that every move of the puppet regime is controlled by the Soviets and that country can not escape responsibility for the increase of state-sponsored terrorism.
Pakistan releases	j
Soviet pilot	|
THE Pafclstsa government has handed over the pilot of a Soviet 5U-25 aircraft to the Soviet embassy as a gesture of goodwill. The plane was shot down on August the 4th by the Pakistan air force m North Wasiristan when it violated Pakistan air space. According to the Foreign Off ice, the pilot was handed over to the Soviet charge-id1 affaire in the presence of a representative of the UN Good Office Mission to Afghanistan and Pakistan i UNCOMAP).
It should be mentioned that earl ier this year the crews of a Soviet helicopter who were captured in Chitrai, North of Pakistan were handed over to the Soviet Embassy as a sign of goodwill.