AFGHAN NEUS UOL.tll, HO.8,      15/4/  1987    PAGE  2
to struggle for liberation which has continued for seven years.
By looking back the following conclusions can be drawn:
       1- The coup was encouraged and backed by the Soviets.
       2- People uprising against the communist regime was a natural answer to the harsh measures the communists took in implementing their plans.
       3- Opposition against the regime was not local. It covered the length and the breadth of Afghanistan
       4- Communists relied on Soviet promises rather than their own strength The communist who were city-dwellers .were ignorant about the realities of the life the majority of Afghans. They could see the solution to every problem through the use of force. They were successful against the army of Daud but failed against the people of Afghanistan.
       5- The important factor which defeated the communists was the peoples' strong belief in Islam. The common man in Afghanistan watched the open enmity of the communist regime towards religion and religious figures.
6- All the above mistakes permanently ended the political life of the communists They can survive only under the protection of the Soviets. The puppets can not pretend to be good Muslims and no body believes in their promises of good conduct in the future. They have branded themselves Soviet agents, a curse which can never be erased.
18/3/1987. Mujahideen attacked an enemy post in Sandooq village. One Mujahid was martyred and another wounded by anti-personnel mines planted by the enemy. Mujahideen attacked the post with heavy and light weapons The casualties of the enemy were not immediately known.
24/3/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at launched and attack with heavy weapons on the puppet forces positioned in Mohmand Dara (close to the Pakistan border). The shells hit the targets and the enemy suffered heavy casualties.the exact number of which were not immediately known. Torkham-Jalalabad road which passes close to the area was closed for nine hours. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
NEWS
FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS
NANGARHAR PROVINCE
PROVINCE