AFGHANews Vol 5, No 9, May 1,1989, page ©
Glimpses into the historical background of	Part	(3)
The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
Situation in Afghanistan during my absence:
The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan originated from the Faculty of Shariat, Kabul University, but was welcomed and promoted by many students from other faculties, such as Engineering, Medicine, and Science. That happened after 1964 when the nucleus of the Movement had already been formed. What made the students realize the danger of communism was the communists' conspicuous anti Islamic actions such as eating during the month of Ramazan, inviting people to communism and holding public rallies in defense of communism.
Once the Muslim students realized the danger, everyone tried to Find a companion in order to defend the Religion of God and to do Jehad in the Way of God. That led to the appearance of two phenomena:
1. Emergence of prominent personalities among the students and gathering of others around them. We can name some of those personalities: Eng. Habibur Rahman from Faculty of Polytechnic; dear brother Abdur Rahim Niazi, Martyred Habibur Rahman, Abdur Rab Rasool Sayyaf, Mohammad Jan Ahmadzai, Abdul Bari, Martyred Abdul Qader, Martyred Sayyed Abdur Rahman and Enayatullah Shadab from the Faculty of Shariat; Sayyed Noorullah Em ad from Faculty of Sciences; Gulbuddin Hikmatyar and Saifuddin Nasratyar from Faculty of Engineering.
Brother Abdur Rahim Niazi, who was one of the most prominent personalities, passed away before the Movement had taken an organizational format
2. Invitation and induction of new students to the Islamic Movement became easier. The prominent personalities among the students became appropriate means for expanding the range of the Movement They served as a link between university students and professors of the Faculty of Shariat such as Prof. Ghulam Mohammad Niazi, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani and myself after my return. The professors, on the other hand, were links between the student members of the Movement and those members outside the University.
Memoirs of Dr. Tawana
The scholarly atmosphere for the members of the Movement improved enormously during the 1960s compared to the decade before it. Import of books from abroad became popular. Improvement in the economic situation made it easier to purchase them. Everyone could find something that suited his ideas and ideals.
Everyone’s knowledge about his ideology and school of thought increased. Each side strengthened its arguments in support of its position. Discussions and arguments between the two sides extended from the classroom to public meetings and even to private houses.
The Muslim activists had the upper hand in the arguments against communism. Their reasoning was clear and iheir evidence was strong. Thus, their number increased day by day. That brought a change in communist strategy. Earlier they used to promote free mingling of people with different ideologies hoping that their followers could corrupt the Muslims. Soon they realized the situation was the reverse. It was the misguided communists who would see the light of truth through their association with the Muslims. Therefore, the communists started discouraging and even banning their members from mingling with Muslim activists.
During this period (1964-71) some events took place which had historical significance for the Movement
(1) Showing of a film about evolution in Polytechnic Institute. The Institute was built by the Russians and the film was screened by the Russian instructors. The theme of the film was about creation without Creator. The members of the Islamic Movement reacted very strongly to that sacrilegious act, and their opposition shocked the University authorities. Martyred Eng. Habibur Rahman placed a leading role in that incident.
(2) Tearing apart a copy of the Holy Quran by the communists in the University dormitory in 1971. That incident excited the Muslim activists and exposed the true face of the communists to the general public.
(3) The use of the slogan "Dorood to Lenin" by the Parcham periodical in 1971. "Dorood" is a word of praise reserved for the Holy Prophet and other religious personalities among the

fgtsl|a |ie|p||r |knd in the arguments agaisnt epmipjmists. Therefore,
dfeco||agihg and even banning their members
Muslims. Its use for Lenin by the pro-Moscow paper brought about an uproar among Muslims in Kabul University and outside it. Huge demonstrations began in Kabul city. They lasted for 43 consecutive days, and were spearheaded by religious scholars and spiritual leaders. A number of people started a sit-in demonstration in Pul-e-Khishti mosque and raised anti Zahir Shah slogans for his indifferent attitude and failure to defend religious sanctity. The demonstration was broken up by the King's armed forces.
The above incidents inflamed hatred towards communism in the hearts of the Muslims more then before. They also led to the return of some beguiled Muslims from the rank of communists- Moreover, they strengthened mutual relationship among the members of the Movement and led into comprehensive cooperation between University students and students of religious schools and private madrasas. Muslim gatherings and public meetings increased; and sometimes they ended up in clashes with the communists.
The positive and negative consequences of the incidents propted the leaders of the Movement to start planning for its future activities and for improving its organizational framework. So far the Movement had been headed by a few professors of the Faculty of Shariat under the leadership of Prof. Ghulam Mohammad Niazi without any formal structure. The activities had been focused on countering communism in a scholarly manner.