- MMttWit           tnt. IU,   w, ft,  J5/3/iqB8,   Mlf.  2
Mujahideen have- rejected tfte Geneva pro limits' talks from the very beginning because the real parties to the Afghanistan war are not present in the talks. All the members of the I UAH are unanimous in this view, and so are the members of the Alliance Council of the Mujahideen organizations based in Iran.
¥e appreciate the hospitality and assistance extended by the Pakistani Muslim people and the Pakistan government in the past 10 years. ¥e do not feel ourselves bound by the decisions made by Pakistan if our demand for freedom is not met.We are determined to continue our struggle until we reach the aims of our holy Jehad: <i> to liberate Afghanistan from Russian domination, arid (2) to gain the right of self-determination for our Muslim people.
Six years ago the reistance proclaimed that the Geneva peace talks were doomed to fail. How that we have reached the end of the Geneva talks, it seems that our forecast is about to come true.
                             Jami'at leader visits Iran
Irani leaders assured Prof. Rabbani of their support until the people of Afghanistan achieve their freedom.
Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, the leader of Jamiat Islami Afghanistan, paid an official visit to Iran from February' 26 to Harch 9,1988. The invitation was extended by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Three Jamiat members accompanied Prof. Rabbani in the trip. They were Dr. Hajibullah Lafraie, head of the Political Committee, Hr.Saifur Rahman Saief, head of the Intelligence Committee,           and Mr. Bahauddir. Ziaie, J. I. A
Representative in Tehran.
During the trip, Prof. Rabbani met with Ayatullah Muntazeri, Hujatul Islam Khamenaie, the President, Hr. Mcayeeri, Deputy Prime Minister, Hr. Walayati, Sinister of Foreign Affairs, and some other officials and religious leaders. In their talks, the Iranian authorities reiterated their support of Mujahideen and their rejection of the Geneva talks.
  The Iranian leaders also emphasised the importance of unity of all Mujahideen -and all the Afghan Muslim people regardless of their religious denomination, or their ethnic and regional associations.
Prof. Rabbani met with the leaders of the Mujahideen organizations based in Iran. He also spoke to several gatherings of the Afghan refugees in Tehran, Mash‘had and Turbat-e-Jam.
In Turbat, Prof. Rabbani visited martyred Safiullah Afzali's tomb and offered Fateha to his family. Safiullah was a well-known commander of Jami'at in Herat who was killed by KHAD agents some months age.
                              Russians help war of cities
During Prof. Rabbani's trip to Iran, Tehran and several other Iranian cities came under missile attack of Iraqi. The missiles used were made in Russia. 3y providing missiles to Iraq Russians wanted to put pressure on Iran to change, its- position in regard to the Afghanistan issue in general and the Geneva indirect peace talks in particular. The missile attack began at the eve of the latest round of the Geneva talks.