——~ ~	AFGHANews Vol 6, No 4, February 15,1990, page 0
Moscow's oppressive rule
public. The demands of the Front were at the time moderate:
1-	an Extra-ordinary Session of the Supreme Soviet of Azerbaijan to discuss a new sovereignty law and the economic independence of the republic;
2-	liberation of all political prisoners;
3-	official recognition of die Popular Front;
4-	new free elections to die Republican Supreme Soviet
The main lines of the Popular Front's program were no different from the political platforms of the Baltic republics. The aims were political pluralism, free market economy, defence of human rights, freedom to profess religion, and direct control of their national produce without interference from Moscow.
The Popular Front won this first political battle against the Communist Party, and on 25 September die Azerbaijani Supreme Soviet voted a law on national sovereignty inspired by the Front. From then on the Republican Communist Party began to lose power, and it is indeed to regain control and not to protea the Armenians that Moscow intervened with such brutality on 19 January.
he immediate consequences of I the intervention were not what Moscow expected: 1- For the first time the Azerbaijani Popular Front and the Armenian National Front declared that they were willing to negotiate under the patronage of the Baltic states. For two years Moscow was unable to promote a dialogue between the communist ‘ party organizations of Armenia.and Azerbaijan. 2- National unity which until then was lacking in Azerbaijan is emerging, with the Party and government cadres siding with the Popular Front against the "foreign" invader. The new radical political parties, such as Yeni MusaWat. which had distanced themselves from the Front in the last few months have regrouped in a show of national solidarity. The Popular Front has shown not only that it can call on the support of the whole nation, but that it is as capable as the Communist Party, if not more so, to administer the republic. 3- The element of disenchantment among the Soviet army reserve is even more evident than during the Afghan war. Moscow will never again be able to motivate the conscript and impose discipline. 4-Moscow will never be able to impose servile candidates; to the national communist parties.
In the long term the consequences for Moscow will be even more disas-
trous. Had Gorbachev shown intelligence and flexibility and not intervened militarily, then perhaps the Russian protectorate may have been saved for the future. As the situation stands today, total political and economic independence is the aim of every Azeri having shed their blood, the Azeris will not be content with gradual and slow reforms. Azerbaijan has the economic and political ability to be independent -if it was not for Russian interference it could today be as rich as Kuwait. When it regains independence, as no doubt it will, the Soviet colonial empire will disintegrate because Azerbaijan's example will be followed by all the Muslim republics of the USSR.
Marie Broxup is the co-editor of Central Asia and Caucasus Chronicle, published by The Society for Central Asian Studies
92 Lots Road, Unit 8, London SW104BQ,UK
News Agency starts working
The Supervisory Council of Jami'at Islami announced the formation of the Hindukush News Agency inside the country on January 23.
The Agency which is run by the Cultural Committee of the Council has radio contact with fourteen provinces in Afghanistan.
"The aim' of the agency is to keep the world informed about developments inside Afghanistan," said Qanuni, the head of the Cultural Committee of the Council >
Hindukush is the name of famous mountain range in North-East Afghanistan. The news collected by the Hindukush News Agency (HINA) is given to the major news agencies based in Pakistan though die Jami'at office.
Mujahideen have tried in the past to form news agencies outside Afghanistan, but the formation of IONA is the first attempt' by Mujahideen inside the country.
SAMA leader killed by unknown men
Voice of America reported that Abdul Qayyum, leader of SAMA (Sazman Azadibakh Mardom Afghanistan) Was killed by unknown people in Peshawar on January 27.
SAMA is a leftist movement which have had underground activities in Afghanistan.
Abdul Qayyum assumed the leadership of this organization after his brother, Abdul Majid Kalakani was ex-ecuted by the Kabul regime.
Abdul Qayyumwas a professor in one of the universities in West Germany. At the beginning of the Soviet invasion SAMA. was involved in open mitit^ activities in some parts of Afgh^sM^ Sj^iA is factiptt of Shola-i-Javid(EternalFlame) which was active in the '60s and 70s among the students in Kabul University. Shola-i-Javid was a Moist movement promoting a Chinese-style revolution in Afghanistan. Its followers opposed the Soviet influence in Afghanistan on ideological grounds .
Refugees to face food shortage
Gulbaz Khan, the Commissioner for Afghan refugees in Peshawar has said that the food allowance for Afghan refugees has decreased due to the diminishing amount of foreign assistance for the refugees.
Each refugee now gets about 15 kilograms of wheat "each month and every few months a small amount of cooking oil.
The Commissioner of Afghan refugees say that his organization which is responsible for looking after the refugees. does not receive any assistance from the World Food Organization which was the main source of food supply to the refugees.
While the registered refugees get little assistance more than 70,000 refugees who entered Pakistan after the
Jalalabad operation are not registered and receive nothing. They only receive limited assistance from private relief organizations.
Teacher discuss school problems
A training course for 360 teachers was opened on February 23 in Panjshir which will last till March 16. The participants of the course will discuss problems of education in their areas and ways to solve them. They will be also dis cuss new methods of teaching.
The teachers on the course come from Parwan and Kapisa provinces and North of Kabul. A representative of the Supervisory Council in Peshawar said that the Council runs 132 schools in Parwan, Kapisa and North of Kabul in whic 14,224 students attend. He added that a similar course will soon be opened in North of the country to help the teachersadopt new methods of teaching.