ftFGHfiHswe Uoi Ho T, fipril 1.,f938., PftGE. ?

han Year
  BEFORE the war Afghan He v Y ear was a happy occasion which was celebrated by the people and government. The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan ended those celebrations.
  New year marks the begining of spring and the start of farming activities. The first day of the year was a national holiday to permit everybody to participate in the activities arranged for the day.
  Sport contests, farmers march past and cattle show were arranged to mark the happy occasion. Families gave food to the poor and prayed for the souls of those who had died in
   Soviets have
  More than one million Afghans have been killed, a third of the population are refugees abroad, and 11 % are displaced inside Afghanistan.
  These statistics were given in a Swiss study cn the damages of the war in Afghanistan, carried out by Professor Marek Sliwinski of the University of Geneva.
  Nine percent of the Af ghan population (1.24 million people) have been killed in the war, Sliwinski estimated. Forty-six percent of the deaths have been caused
 the past year. Celebration of the new year was a tradition but some people gave it a religious color by raising flags on shrines.
  Gne such big gathering took place in Mszar Sharif near the tomb of Hasrat Ali, the fourth calif of Islam. People from different parts of the country and some from Iran and Pakistan participated in the ceremonies.
  All these happy moments belong to the pre-war time. After the war began these functions have not taken place. The reason is simple. The country is divided between occupied and liberated areas, and movement
  by aerial raids, 33% have been killed by artillery fire and 3% by mines.
   "The Afghan Resistance have no aircraft nor heavy artillery, which are almost exclusively in the hands of the Soviets," Professor Sliwinski underlined.
   The report states that the Afghan civilian population have made up at least 80% of the victims of bombardments.
   Professor Sliwinski said that the provinces of northern
 between the two areas is very limited and dangerous. Most people do not participate in the functions the communist government stages, and arranging such occasions in the liberated areas could be very dangerous due to enemy air attacks. In the past Soviets have bombed religious and social gatherings end lulled many people.
  Moreover, the loss of about one million people and displacement of several more millions have disrupted family life in the country. An occasion like the new' year will bring to mind the sad memories of loss of friends and relatives. There is no desire among the people to celebrate these happy occasions.
  Only the withdrawal of Soviet troops and the return of peace in the country will give a chance to the people of Afghanistan to resume their traditional way of life.
 Afghanistan, bordering the USSR, were the areas most touched by the war.
  Equally serious as the loss is the disintegration of Afghan society by rural population displacements and the desertification, without a doubt irreversible in certain areas, reported professor Sliwinski.
  The rural population has fallen from 83% to 23%. whereas the urban population has passed from 15% to 24%. and even tripling in the capital of Kabul.
killed one million Afghans