AFGHANews Vol6, Noll, June 1, 1990, page @
Opinion by:
Mohammad Es'haq
Coordinated warfare should be top aim of commanders' moot
The recent meeting of 37 commanders inside Afghanistan in order to discuss the situation in the country is a step forward, provided that its objective is to intensify the war against the regime.
The three-day meeting began on May 7 in Paktia. 37 commanders, including some from Shia parties, participated. The meeting had no fixed agenda. The present situation in Afghanistan, and how to coordinate military activities among . the Mujahideen were the main topics. The organizers of the meeting set up a committee to try to convene an even larger meeting of commanders inside Afghanistan.
The idea of forming a council of commanders from all over Afghanistan is not new. Such an idea was originally proposed by Ahmad Shah Masood. In interview published some time ago in Shoora newspaper, he said that such a council should discuss the formation of a high command. He said formation of such a command will be the only way to improve the military situation, and added that if such a council is formed, the Supervisory Council stands ready to give it all possible support.
Masood expected the political leaders to support such a move because it was the best way of escaping the present stalemate. The Jami'at leader has given cautious support for the recent commanders' meeting, and has said that all efforts of the Council should be directed towards intensification of war and coordination of military activities.
While efforts to form a grand council of commanders has started, here are some problems facing the organizers which they should watch carefully:
The commanders' council should not fall into competition with the AIG
and other political parties. Support of the political parties is very important for the success of the commanders' mission.
An important step to avoid such a confrontation is to keep the council from becoming a political forum. Its primary objective should be improvement of the .military situation. Once practical steps are taken and the military situation has improved the council will be taken more seriously and it will have a positive say on. major issues concerning the future of Afghanistan.
The second important point is that it should not be used to gain publicity for a person or a party., Any attempt in that direction will sabotage the idea for which the council is supposed to be formed. News of the council should be given by a selected group of people, and individual commanders should avoid giving interviews, at least in the primary stages.
The third point, of which the organizers are fuflly aware, is that the council should include most of the effective commanders irrespective of their regions and political affiliation. A council in which most of the effective commanders or their powerful envoys participate will serve the national unity and neutralize enemy designs of the enemy to divide Afghans. In order to give it a national character the venue of the meeting should be shifted during each session. The deeper inside the country the meetings take place, the more credible they will be.
The organizers of the council should' try to maintain its independent character. The idea has originated with Afghans themselves and its implementation should be protected from outside influence. Once the council's positive results show themselves on the battlefield, the external supporters of Jehad will line up behind it. ______________
Jehad University graduation ceremony held
Graduates of the first university of the Mujahideen in exile were awarded certificates on May 10.
Prof. Sayyaf, who founded the University of Jehad, gave away the certificates.
Speakers on the occasion emphasized the need for higher education. Maulawi Khalis said he was not against women's education if they observe Hejab.
Jehad University has faculties of Islamic law, medicine, engineering and education. Jami'at Islami has opened a university for women.
There is no controversy among Afghans about the importance of education for both men and women. The Islamist parties stress the need for Islamic education system and observation of Islamic dress for'the students.
Mujahideen hurt by Sadruddin *s remarks
Habibur Rahman
The recent statement by Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan, at the Strategic International Center of Georgetown University in Washington, regarding the situation in Afghanistan, prdvoked a strong feaction from Mujahideen leaders.
Agha Khan is the United Nations coordinator for humanitarian and economic assistance programs relating to Afghanistan.
He told his audience in the Strategic Center that, the war in Afghanistan was useless and its victims were the civilians.
Agha Khan said the.aid sent to the Mujahideen falls into the hands of 'ex tremist groups’ who will use it to escalate the war.
He proposed cutting arms supplies to both the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime and hoped that the US and USSR will recognize some areas of Afghanistan as "peace zones" where a cease-fire might be observed.
He charged that continuation of war helps the drug market, and that the money gained from drug sales will buy more guns to control the land where poppy is grown.
The UN coordinator said that the continued war in Afghanistan endangers democracy in Pakistan. He men tioned that there were differences within the Pakistan government over Afghan policy.
These remarks of Sadruddin Agha Khan, which are biased against the re sistance, are not new. He has made such remarks on other occasions as well.
His words amounted to open criticism of the policies of the Afghan resistance, and he referred to the Mujahideen by the same terminology which Moscow and Kabul use toward the resistance.
His remarks provoked a fierce reaction from the cabinet of the AIG. A statement described his remarks as unrealistic and hostile, and asked the UN coordinator to refrain from such hostile remarks in the future.
Sadruddin's comments offended more than just a group of politicians in the resistance: all ordinary Afghans who hear them will be irritated as well. Coming from a ranking officer of the UN, they are deplorable.
Turn to page (8)