\
Vol 5, No 12	June	15,	1989
Imam Khomeini

wins
election
Solidarity's victory in the elections in Poland is a source of happiness to the Afghan resistance.
After a long period of suppression the Solidarity Movement was able to participate in a partially free election and gain victory.
The communist party which had reserved most of the seats of the lower house for its candidates admitted the solidarity victory in these seats which it was allowed to contest
It is natural for Afghans to feel close to a movement which sympathized with the Mujahideen in their struggle for liberation.
There are good reasons for closeness between the Afghan Resistance and the Solidarity Movement. The Soviet Union is their common enemy, both are anti communist movements and are motivated by religious ideals in their struggle.
Members of the Solidarity movement have looked with admiration at the courage and patience of the Afghans in their long and difficult struggle.
When the Soviets decided to withdraw their forces from Afghanistan, people affiliated Id Solidarity celebrated the victory of Afghans by sending congratulatory messages to the Mujahideen leaders.
Jami'at received several letters from solidarity workers addressed to Prof. Rabbani and Commander Masood
Masood is a known figure in Poland because the account of his struggle has been published in Polish and distributed among Poles by his admirers.
The Afghans victory is not completed yet and neither is die Solidarity Movement. The initial victories of the two have happened in the same year, a happy coincidence.
passes
Imam Khomeini, the spiritual leader of Iran died at the age of 86 on June 3.
Ayatullah Rohullah Khomeini led the Islamic Revolution against the Shah of Iran in 1979 and founded the Islamic Republic of Iran.
He had inspired millions of Iranians, including youth and women far ten years since the fall of Shah.
Millions of Iranians gathered to mourn his death. A Mujahideen delegation headed by Prof. Mujaddidi participated in the funeral of the late Imam. Prof. Rabbani, Jami'at leader was included in the Mujahideen delegation.
The 80-member council of experts elected Sayed Ali Khamenei, the president of Iran, the new spiritual leader of Iran.
In a message to the newly-elected spiritual leader of the Islamic Republic, Professor Rabbani called the demise of the Imam a great loss for all Muslims. He called the Imam a great man who
The Prime Minister of Pakistan paid a 6-day official visit to the US where she discussed different* is-sues, including the Afghanistan problem, with the US leaders.
During her tour which started on June 5, Benazir Bhutto talked to President George Bush, Foreign Secretary James Baker and other American leaders and addressed the joint session of the US Congress.
She also met with the UN Secretary General and discussed with him the situation in Afghanistan.
The Afghan issue was on the top
away
had opened a new chapter in the history of Muslims and the world.
Imam Khamenei was a supporter of the Afghan Mujahideen and on different occasions praised the courage of the Afghan people in their struggle against the Soviet aggressors.
The-New spiritual leader of Iran has been close to the Afghan issue and he is probably better informed about the situation than his predecessor.
After the death of the Imam, the transfer oPpower took place in a peaceful manner. A massive turn out at the funeral ceremony of Imam Khomeini, estimated at about 10 million people, showing the degree of the popularity that Imam enjoyed among the Iranians surprised the world.
The Afghan Resistance was happy to see a peaceful transfer of power in Iran* It is natural for Afghans to want to see Iran, an Islamic and neighboring country where more than two million Afghan refugees live, in peace.
of the agenda of the Prime Minister of Pakistan in ha discussion with die US leaders.
The two sides pledged to work for peace in Afghanistan. They emphasized on the right of Afghans to determine their future.
The Pakistan Prime Minister told the joint session of Congress: "we must not abandon their (Afghans) cause; the conflict is not over.”
A Pakistani spokesman who briefed journalists oir the talks between Benazir Bhutto and American officials said that the two sides were in full agreement that Najib's regime must go, but do not want to impose any body else on the Afghan people.
Benazir discusses Afghan issue with US leaders