AFGBANews Vol 8, No 18 & 19, October 1,1992, page ©
Dear editor,
AFGHANews has served the cause of Jehad and reflected the true situation in Afghanistan." The Muslims living in Canada, show great interest in reading AFGHANews. I make 500 copies of any issue that I receive and distribute them among Muslims here. We; do not receive any government publications. Please keep us informed about developments in Afghanistan. We will send you some donation in the future.	,	•
Abdur Rahim ‘ Jami'at Representative Toronto, Canada
Dear Brother,
Thank you for sending us your newspaper. We are delighted to leam the truth about Jehad and the effort that our brothers and sisters are making to establish an Islamic and free Afghanistan.
Please leam that we have added you to our distribution list for The American Journal of Islamic Finance.
We would greatly appreciate your keeping us up to date about any efforts that will be made in Afghanistan to establish Islamic banking.
Yours in Islam Abdulkader California U.S.A.
Phila, PA
USA
Dear editor,
It is truly a pleasure to be writing to you in Kabul, as well as to read of the process of establishing Islamic rule in Afghanistan'.
We earnestly supplicate our' most merciful Lord to grant fortitude and wisdom to the Mujahideen - -imparticu-lar the leadership, so that the problems and difficulties which now face the Jehad can be overcome.
Your paper is enjoyed a high degree, and thank you again, for providing it to us.
Abdul Bari
Pendleton, IN - . U.S.A •
Dear editor.
Thanks to Almighty Allah that He enabled our Muslim people to achieve their final goal after 14 years of suffering.
I received • AFGHANews from Kabul which had several positive reports.
I. hope that your new office in Kabul is comfortable and you would have the opportunity to publish your paper on time as before.
Mihrabuddin Mas tan
Paris
France
. Ghafrai Baheer* the represent*-;
rive and son-in-law ofHtkmatyar
recently met with Zahir . Shah :mi Rome to askjor	with
Beab Mami;’ ^gfcatristatt "a&t The World Media	-According to
the paper, the former' king ..rejected
.. GidbiaJdm :Hikmatyar hadtrilda; gathering of Afghan refugees Jiving In Germany some years ago that M was speaking as ah engineer and not a&a!&&&.'... j
Afghanistan 'and' 1%/ Wc$d Media, a paper pahUshet	^,
in	■ that since
saw	..	„
angle,;ji&	*6|
wantedfode«iroy: Rbyhis roel^'afs :taeks ^frsre:^uddmg.
hkriii!:...:	‘	■..	■ /"?•. ‘
Ilt-V woah:	...
facutty.of the 8afcd;	-fm
one and hail years. Due jo, involves meat- la -
Hamid AKtoabid has been ajK
(OlC>kJt fpnrrm^eyears,'	■	.
Thededision was t&kcriinjL session of the .member attest in New Vest, The session also discussed ofb*;
Dear editor,'
I congratulate the establishment of ihe.Islamic government to you.
Friends of Jehad celebrated the victory of the Mujahideen in various cities of Austria. We pray for the return
of peace in Kabul. V
I am ready to play my role in rebuilding Afghanistan and I will do whatever the Islamic government asks me to do! . '
Nadir-Saikal
Canberra
Australia ' .
Dear editor,
I congratulate establishment of the Islamic government and all those who struggle for its establishment.
Your paper reach me regularly. I was so happy that it kept me aware of developments in my country..
Fahim Ghaznawi •
Dear editor.
First of all, I want to excuse me for writing you so late. I want to take the chance to congratulate you and the people of Afghanistan for their great victory over one of toe most evil tyrannies in toe 20th century.
furthermore, I want to thank you very much. for sending me AFGHANews again. Since I continue to study the events in Afghanistan, AFGHANews is an excellent source of information, especially for someone living in Austria.
I read in one of your issues; that a subscription to AFGHANews is possible. So I will apply as soon as possible to toe address given. Please continue to inform your readers as j ju have done toe last eight years.
Alexander Johannes CLAUSEN Austria
countries on, the world,
over

tonnes of
Aa Egyptian driegarion, beaded by Abdul Watafc, wbreh reached Kabul m Sepfemtoer 1% said that toe donation sign of solidarity of toe
~—■—'—ij- T‘-	■ ■ me	J~*—“
the Islamic State of Afghanistan has	to paritaipj
tn relief Opemtions to help the vie-, rims of recent floods in Pakistan. Tbis
ridpates m a rdtefopemrion outside toe country,
s__________....	J