Vol 7, No 6
March 15,1991
cC OPENS
IN QUETTA
The Council of Commanders (CC) has opened its office in Quetta. This office will deal with the Mujahideen of southwestern Afghanistan.
A 15-member delegation, headed by Commander Haqqani, went to Quetta to open the office and talk with Mujahideen commanders, religious scholars (Ulama) and tribal elders.
About 250 commanders, Ulama and elders belonging to different provinces of southwestern Afghanistan expressed their support for the council.
There were, however, some opposition to the CC's mission, instigated by some Mujahideen political parties which oppose it.
Commander Anwar returned from New York after taking part in a conference on Afghanistan as the representative of the CC.
Among other matters, he discussed the problems of aid for Afghanistan.
He told the conference that Afghans should be involved in planning for any assistance given to them. He criticized Sadruddin's role as the Coordinator of UN aid for Afghanistan and said he did not consult Afghans about the programs he launched . That was the reason for his failure, the commander said.
Commander Anwar met with Peter Tomsen, US special envoy to the resistance, and two US senators during his visit, and discussed the situation with them. He was also interviewed by BBC and VOA's Dari and Pushto services.
The CC is planning to hold its third meeting in the spring. The council has raised hopes for victory by the Mujahideen, but the people are waiting for practical result of its activities on the battlefield situation. The council scored a victory when Ahmad Shah Masood attended its special meeting on the border of Badakhshan Province.
Second Shia Conference ends in Iranian capital
The Second Shia Conference of Afghan Mujahideen concluded in Teheran on March 1.
Prominent Shia Mujahideen and scholars took part in the conference. It was aimed at discussing the current situation in Afghanistan and trying to forge unity among Shia groups.
President Rafsanjani and Foreign Minister Velayati sent messages to the conference, which were read out by their representatives.
Rafsanjani stressed the need for giving Afghans the right of self-determination. Velayati, praising the courage of the Afghan people, said that an Islamic government should be formed in Afghanistan to safeguard the interests of all sections of Afghan society.
A resolution passed by the conference asked for termination of outside interference in Afghanistan's affairs.
A spokesman of Harakat-i-Islami (Mohseni) has rejected the Iranian official radio repot that Harakat has been merged into Hezb-i-WahdaL
Javed, the spokesman of Harakat, said that only three members of the Central Council of Harakat left the party to join Hezb WahdaL The party un-
der the leadership of Shaikh Mohseni still existed, he added. He regretted the closing of Harakat's offices in Tehran and other cities of Iran by the Islamic Republic.
When he was asked why Iran took such a step, he said the independent position of Harakat is not liked by Iran.
Ayatullah Mohseni is a renowned Shia scholar who is famous for his in dependent attitudes.
Harakat has some powerful fronts in Afghanistan. One of them is led by Commander Anwari near Kabul.
Some months ago some Shia parties formed a single party called Hezb-i-Wahdat, which is supported by Iran, Harakat did not join that party and continued its independent activities from Pakistan.
Also:	Abdul	Hamid Sajjadi, a
ranking member of Hezb-i-Wahdat has died in a car accident near Lahore, Pakistan. He was a member of the Central Council of the Tehran-based Wahdat party. He was a religious schol ar who had studied in Iraq and Iran.
Sajjadi had come to Pakistan for business. Four other Afghans were injured, two of them seriously, in the incident.
Iranian Majlis speaker meets with Mujahideen leaders in Islamabad
Afghanistan was one of the topics of discussion between the speaker of the Iranian Majlis (national assembly) and leaders of Pakistan during the Iranian official's four-day visit to Pakistan beginning on February 23.
Mehdi Ali Karoubi reiterated his government's stand on Afghanistan when he addressed the national assembly of Pakistan. He said Afghans should be allowed to decide their future without interference from outside. Bilateral issues and the Gulf conflict were at the top of the agenda during the talks between the Iranian and Pakistani leaders.
Mr. Karoubi also met with a num-
ber of Mujahideen leaders, including Prof. Rabbani, in Islamabad. Talking to the Afghan leaders, he stressed the need far unity among the Mujahideen. In this meeting, he announced a donation of $1.5 million for the welfare of orphans and families of martyrs in Afghanistan.
In Teheran, Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Belonogov and his Iranian counterpart Mohmoud Vaezi reviewed the latest developments in Afghanistan and agreed that Iran and the Soviet Union would exchange delegations in the near future to follow up the issue.