AFGHANews Vol 6, No 15, August 1,1990, page 0
UN deploys manchines to clear minefields
Mohammad Es'haq £»
The UN demining program will enter a practical phase when the newly acquired mine-clearing machines are in action in Afghanistan.
The UN Coordinator's Office for Humanitarian Assistance to Afghanistan invited journalists to watch the mine-clearing demonstration by Aarvark Flail Unit in Resalpur traing camp, outside Peshawar on July 22.
The machine looks like a bulldozer. The flail rotQr is fitted with 72 strike chains. When the machine operates, the chains continuously hit the ground causing mines to explode. It can Clear a path three meters wide.
One of the two machines, located about 100 meters from the press conference, demonstrated the mine-clearing operation. The rotating chains in front of the machine produced a column of thick dust as they pounded the ground continually where some mines were planted. After a few seconds the first mine exploded which was followed by other explosions.
The machine is made by a British firm which developed it from the idea of the first mechanical mine-clearing device built in 1943 and used on D-Day.
The weight of the machine and its slow movement make it less desirable for use in a combat situation. In 1983 the Aarvark Flail Unit was manufactured to clear mine fields when hostilities have stopped.*
The Machine is able to clear mines of any kind from 1000 meters in one minute. Armored plates are fixed between the flail unit and the driver's cabin to protect the driver.
, Tt was clear that this machine would do a good job in relatively flat areas. But the machine might face some problems in rocky terrain.
The mine-clearing machines will be used by Afghans who are learning how to use it.
Zia Rizwi, the Deputy Coordinator of Humanitarian Assistance to Afghanistan' said the introduction of the mine-clearing machines was an important step for Operation Salaam, which is responsible for clearing mines in Afghanistan.
Before the mine-clearing demonstration, the leaders of the three UN-funded Afghan organizations which carry out mine-clearing operations and described their work in Afghanistan.
From their briefing it seemed that little work has been done in mine clearance in Afghanistan. Limited mine-clearing operations have been carried out in Kunar, Paktika and Kandahar.
The UN claims that it has trained more than 10,000 Afghans in mine-clearing but only a few groups have been involved in practical mine-clearing.
Introduction of the new machines in sufficient numbers might make the operation more effective, provided the organizational work is done properly.
Rizwi briefed the journalists about Operation Salaam. He said criticism of the program was not justified. It was clear that he wanted to paint a positive picture of the situation by claiming that through Operation Salaam UN aid reached people in 29 provinces of Afghanistan last year.
He said the main priority of Operation Salaam was sunpest and locust eradication in northern Afghanistan. He said new technology and pesticide can improve the situation.
Rizwi said the Kabul regime was fully cooperative with the UN and he had met the new Prime Minister of the regime, Khaliqyar, whom he. describe as a "non-party man". ;
The press handouts of Operation Salaam listed the name of countries which had contributed to funds for UN Demining Program. The list included Western countries and Japan. The Soviet Union which is responsible for all the mess in Afghanistan has given no money for the demining program in Afghanistan.
Rizwi said Iran has agreed to allow a demining program to start with the refugees in that country.
He stressed that UN Operation Salaam was purely humanitarian. He said that he did not favor any side in the conflict But the Mujahideen accuse Operation Salaam of favoring the Kabul regime. The Kabul regime has benefited from the program economic cally and politically.
The Mujahideen also reject the claims of Rizwi about distribution of UN aid to all Afghans in 29 provinces. Most of the goods brought by Operation Salaam to Afghanistan via the Soviet Union have been distributed in the regime-controlled areas and most of it has reached militia forces of the regime. In the North, Ismaili militiamen are the major, beneficiaries of UN aid through Operation Salaam.
Editorial
From page (4)
In addition to practical problems which work against the safe return of refugees, there are political reasons for the resistance to oppose the program.
The Kabul regime has always used die refugees' return for its own political purposes. The "Peace Guest Houses" which receive the returning refugees in some cities are financed by UN but used by the regime for political propaganda.
For the reasons given, Jami'at opposes tiie repatriation of refugees under present conditions. Jami'at feels that the continuation of war poses a serious threat to the safety of the refugees and there is danger of re-displacement of the returning refugees.
Jami'at does not agree with the claims of availibility of UN assistance to all returning refugees in Afghanistan because the UN has not developed an organiztion to deal with this problem. Jami'at is also opposed to the free movement of UN officials between the regime controlled areas and the territories controlled by the Mujahideen and we have expressed our opposition to the idea of" zones of tranquility" proposed by Sadruddin.
Jami'at believes that the repatriation of refugees is not possible until an acceptable government has been formed in Afghanistan.
The Mujahideen leaders have a duty to warn their fellow refugees about the danger facing the refugees and the political consequences of their decision based on advice by foreigners This does not mean that the Mujahideen will use force to prevent the refugees as the UN handouts suggest.
By highlighting the danger facing the .returning refugees inside Pakistan, the UN has fallen in a propaganda trap set up by the Kabul regime. The Kabul regime claimed for several years that the refugees were nomads and now claims that they are the virtual prisoners of Pakistan and of extremist parties within the resistance. The real danger to the refugees is not in Pakistan but in Afghanistan. They will face the danger of mines, attacks by regime militia, aerial bombings, rocket attacks and finally by lack of food, clothing and medicine.