AF&BAHsvs ?oi 1 Ho H, July 15,1986, Pag® 2
•MM
Kabul
THE Mujahideen from Jam!1 at led by Commander Anvar Khan blocked the Kabul-Jalalabad route for three days and destroyed tour enemy posts from which they took prisoner IS soldiers, seized H Kalashiafcov rifles and three heavy machine guns on July d. More than 30 j enemy soldiers were either j killed or wounded.
Although the posts which | were located along the route ware encircled by mine-fields, the Mujahideen were able to hit them with heavy artillery,
On the same day the Mujahideen attacked two other posts and destroyed 6 APCs and two artillery positions. The Mujahideen lost four men in the operation which lasted for a whole day. They also iost 12 mules which were killed during the fighting,
•The Mujahideen fought OKA forces In Shakardara destroying five enemy trucks including an AFC, capturing five Kaiashinke? rifles, a Ourinov machine gun and killing or wounding 30 militiamen on June 23-The fighting started at a time when a 1>RA military convoy consisting of 30 tanks and armoured vehicles moved into the district in an attempt to reinforce the district posts which were under the Mujahideen seige since 60
days,
The enemy was forced to retreat from the area but later the they bombed the district which resulted in the killing of 13 residents and the destruction of some houses,
The operation was carried out under the command of Mullah Taj Mohammad, one of jam fat's Commanders in Shakardara district.
Herat
•THE Mujahideen from Jami'st under the commend of Abdul Aziz, destroyed six enemy posts around Shiodand air base, capturing four mortars, five heavy machine guns, 35 Kzlashinkov rifles and taking prisoner 16 soldiers including three officers on June 11.
Later the Hussions launched retaliatory air raids In which they bombed a number of villages and burnt i huge amount of crops,	j
One Muj&hid was killed and two residents were wounded in the bombing.
• The Mujahideen led fey Commander Fazel Ahmad attacked DRA border posts in Gurg Abad area resulting in the blockade of supply line to the posts on June 15= Eighty five soldiers from the posts surrendered to the Mujahideen bringing with them 60 light weapons.
In the fighting, the enemy lost eight soldiers and 15
j others were injured.
The Mujahideen iost two
men,
Wardak
THE Mujahideen occupied the provincial capital, Maidan, for H hours after they launched an operation in which they pushed the BRA forces out of the capital, on June 26,
According to an eyewitness, the Mujahideen captured the city which is 30 kilometers from Kabul at a time when ail the DRA forces were under heavy artillery fire fey Mujahideen which forced the enemy out.
The Mujahideen kept the city under their control for a whole day and left the next day after seizing 150 weapons and great amounts of amunition and food left by the enemy forces. The enemy air force launched a series of air strikes around the capital and recaptured the city.
The Mujahideen lost three men and some others wore wounded.
Before the fighting started the people around the city quitted the area, therefore no life casualties on civilians were inflicted.
The operation was carried out by Jami'at and Hezfe Islami Including some other Mujahideen units.
Kandahar
THE Mujahideen commanded by Mullah Naqife clashed with an enemy convoy destroying three tanks and four APCs killing or wounding 30 soldiers on June 25«
The convoy which was attacked fey Mujahideen in Baba Sahib Pass was moving towards Arshandafe district in an attempt to resupply the besieged posts there. After two hours of fighting the the convoy was forced hack from the area.
Five Mujahideen were killed and 10 others were