• AFGHANews Vol 5, No 7, April 1, 1989, page @
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Mawlawi Sayyed Yousuf
Mawlawi Sayyed Mohammad Yousuf, 34, is the Chief Administrator (Provincial Amir) of Jami'at Islami Party in Faryab province. He was born in the Chashma village of Lawlash sub-District, Pushtoonkoot district in Faryab. His father, Sayyed Moudood died when Sayyed yousuf was two years old and his brother took the responsibility of bringing him up. Sayyed Yousuf belongs to a Sadat ( the descendant of the Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) family which respected by Afghans.
His representative in Peshawar, Mawlawi Azim, said that Sayyed yousuf went to Kabul Technical School after finishing the primary school in Lawlash. After one year, he left the technical school in Kabul and started to study religious subjects in private Madrasas. He made this decision with the encouragement from his elder brother, Sayyed Ayoub.
Sayyed Yousuf moved from place to place to learn from famous religious scholars in Faryab province and at the final stage of his studies he arrived in Kabul where he graduated from Tar ah Khail Madrasa in 1977 and gained the title of Mawlawi.
> During his stay in Kabul he be came associated with the Islamic movement.
After graduation, he returned to his native village and started to teach in the local Madrasa. Six months after his return the communists took power in a military coup and this marked a big change in the life of young Mawlawi.
The Taraki regime wanted to wipe out its potential enemies. Spiritual families and religious scholars were the prime targets. Sayyed Yousufs brother was captured but he himself managed to escape and take refuge in the mountains of Jawain in a remote part of the province. In this area about 500 anti com munist people from Faryab and Ghoor province had gathered. They wanted to start an aimed uprising against the godless regime of Taraki.
Jehad in the two neighboring piov inces of Faryab and Ghoor started from this area.
The leadership of Faryab Mujahideen was in the hands of Mullah Umar. Mawlawi Yousuf started his Jehad as a group commander under Mullah Umar’s leadership. In 1979 the
districts of Lawlash, Gurziwan, Qaisar, Almar and Shereen Tagab were liberated by the Mujahideen. He played an active role in the fighting. In the fighting at Gurziwan he was injured but recovered quickly.
When Mullah Mohammad Umar was martyred in 1984,, Mawlawi Sayyed Yousuf was elected by the Mujahideen from Jami'at as their Provincial leader.
Mawlawi Yousuf has personally taken part, in many battles against the soviets and the Kabul regime forces. Last summer he launched a 35-day long campaign against the communist forces in Maimana, the provincial capital of Faryab in which 24 enemy posts were destroyed and large number of the enemy soldiers and officers were either killed or wounded.
Mohammad Azim said that out of nine districts and five sub-districts of the province only three districts and the Maimana city are under the control of the enemy. The rest are controlled by the Mujahideen. Jami'at is the dominating party in Faryab, he added.
Mawlawi Yousuf pays close attention to the education of children. He has opened many schools. He also has established an effective judicial system.
Mawlawi Sayyed Yousuf has been personally affected by the war by losing five close relatives.
As a commander, a religious scholar and a descendant of the Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) Mawlawi Yousuf is respected by the people.
More the 30,000 fresh refugees have recently crossed the border into Pakistan to escape the war in Jalalabad which has continued for some weeks.
Most of the new refugees are women, children and old men. According to some estimates more than 100,000 people lived in Jalalabad before the Mujahideen launched their attack.
The UN and other humanitarian organizations held a meeting in Peshawar to deal with the new development
The Kabul regime has claimed that since the signing, of the Geneva accords on April 14 of last year, more than 170,000 refugees have returned to Afghanistan. This number is considered to be highly exaggerated.
Pakistani sources have said that contrary to the claims of the Kabul regime more than 43,000 refugees have crossed the border into Pakistan since November of last year. The Jalalabad fighting has driven the bulk of these refugees.
Jalalabad, the provincial capital of Ningarhar, is located about 75 kilometers from the Pakistan border.
The flow of the refugees form other parts of Afghanistan, including Kabul, continues. Fighting and food and fuel shortages are the causes of the influx of the refugees.
As weather becomes milder, the war against the regime will escalate. This may lead to influx of more refugees to neighboring countries.
***

