This more than	I
compensates him for the	j
losses made in his own	\
stronghold, the Western Herat.	1
plain. There his forces have	j
been repeatedly attached	j
with huge Infantry force® and daily shellings and bombings. The government has tried to erect five “Kamerbands" security belts to cut off ail traffic from Western Herat province and Iran.
But thanks to efforts by the thousands of Mujahideen, mostly teenagers, most of these security belts have been broken up, mine by mine, tank by tank, trench fey trench. Now only the first security belt, at the very city gate, and parts of the second remains to be broken up.
At the Mujahideen hospital I saw again my friend, doctor Nur Gut, who still has the world record for amputations. He has cut off more than five hundred wounded feet, mostly injured by mines. He told me that his hospital had been levelled to the ground three limes since 1 was last there.
Now the hospital staff were d igging false bomb craters in the surroundings to mislead the reconnaissance aircrafts, And they were planning to build an underground hospital, if they could only coup with the high j water table on the plain. j On the Herat plain a few pieces of land that were lying I barren two years ago were now j tilled, not by returning civilian, but by starving Mujahideen.
The prices of rice and j mutton have more than doubled, and since all people with government connections have coupons and thereby free food you could call this an economic warfare against the Resistance and the civilians outside government control.
The herds of sheep, for which Herat, was once famous, have now shrunk and almost disappeared. The foodstuff sold inside Herat city is mostly imported from
Af&HAHem Vert'4, Mo 13, July 1,1988, Page 9
Pakistan and sold at very high prices.
This problem could become a decisive one for the Resistance, People starving can easily be subdued by the Najlfe administration which has all the money machines. Hadn't it been for the obvious crack within the regime itself forecasts would be gloomy.
One striking change I noticed West of Herat was that the supply convoys, asses and mules with munitions, were no longer going from Iran to Herat. Now they go from the government depots in Herat to the Western parts of the province.
Except for a few Stingers J saw in the mountains South of Herat Ismael Khan is now completely dependant on government sources for arms and munitions.
He told me that most of the government officers in letters and with secret couriers have declared their loyalty with Mujahideen and promised they will come over as soon as the Soviets are out.
Already two years ago I noticed that on some hours of the day. mostly praying hours government posts do not shoot on the Mujahideen. And in some places they never shoot.
In Ghurian , a city close to the Iranian border with a population of 30,000 people almost completely free, the government posts answered most reluctantly with one shell when Gholam Qaus, a Mujahideen commander, repeatedly fired with artillery.
Stefan Lindgern is a Swedish free-lance journalist who has travelled to Herat twice and has written many article about his trip.
Gulf war blocks way to Mecca
by Abdul was
THE deterioration of a normal relationship between the two Islamic countries of Iran and Saudi Arabia was a sad development.
The dispute over the number of psigrtmes to the Holy Land led to the decision of Iran not to send any one to this year's Haj. This was a sad development indeed!
No doubt the two countries have different views on the Gulf war but they have had these differences since the war started and it was not stopping people performing Haj.
The tragedy of Mecca which led to death of about 400 person in the Holy city was a shocking incident for the Muslims all over the world. After that incident the Muslims were expecting that the two Islamic countries of Saudi Arabia and Iran try to find way® to avoid the recurring of the tragedy but no one was expecting the sad news of not participation of Irani Haj is during the current season.
The Organization of Islamic Conference, Islamic scholars and governments must have tried to stop the situation to develop to this stage and now they should do everything to defuse it.
Afghans feel sad about this unpleasant development between the two countries. They hope this situation should end soon and the root of the dispute, the Gulf war, should come to an end. This will only happen when the dispute is judged based on Islamic principles rather than involving the big powers who try to exploit the situation for their own interest.