AFGHANews Vol7, No 14, July 15, 1991, page 0
Mujahideen propose prisoners exhchange
The Afzali Front in Herat has offered to release a Soviet POW in return for freedom for 25 Mujahideen imprisoned by the Kabul regime.
The Soviet soldier, Qurban Ali, son of Hikmatullah, from	Kulyab,
Tajikistan Republic, was caught in 1984 near Torghondi in Herat Province.
A spokesman of the front said they had approached the Soviet embassy in Islamabad, offering the release of Qurban Ali provided three of their conditions were met:	Twenty-five
Mujahideen held by the Kabul regime be released; Qurban^ father be present at the time of his release, and the exchange of POWs should take place in the presence of journalists.
A committee of mothers and wives of missing Soviet soldiers left for Moscow after meeting Najibullah and top regime officials on their second trip to Afghanistan.
The committee, called "Hope", represents a large number of Soviet women who lost their sons and husbands during the Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan from 1979 to 1989.
The committee, formed after Soviet troops pulled out of Afghanistan in 1989, plans to discuss the issue with Pakistani authorities as well as US legislators. "We want everyone connected with the Afghan problem to help us
UN builds two schools in Jurm
The UN has provided funds for the repair of two girls' schools in Jurm District, Badakhshan Province, the reconstruction office of the Supervisory Council in Peshawar reported.
The Supervisory Council banned cultivation of poppy in the areas it controlled in Badakhshan one year ago. In order to find alternative means of living for the people, it contacted the UN for assistance. A joint survey team of the UN and SC went to the area to estimate the needs of the people.
The United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control has agreed to provide funds for the repair of two high schools in Jurm. The construction work will be done by the SC Reconstruction Committee. The project will provide job opportunities for local people. It is expected that the repair work on the two girls schools will be finished by the end of die current year.
Qurban Ali Tashrtfov
find our sons and husbands,” Evegenia Poplavskaja, president of Hope, said.
More than one million Soviet troops were involved in the 10-year occupation and left after a bloody war with Afghan Mujahideen based in neighboring Pakistan and Iran. According to Mrs. Poplavskaja, some 15,000 Soviet soldiers have been officially confirmed killed in the war while 314 others have been listed as missing in action. Of those, the committee believes that 210 are prisoners of Mujahideen groups.
"Our statistics for both the dead and missing are much higher than the official figures. We have an estimate of about 43,000 Soviet soldiers killed,' the Hope president said.
The Mujahideen groups have released eight Soviet prisoners of war, and the committee said it was hopeful that it could secure the freedom of others.
The Mujahideen blame Moscow for the delay in release of Soviet POWs. They say their humanitarian gesture of releasing some Soviet prisoners was not reciprocated. Instead, Moscow continued to pour weapons of mass de struction into Kabul and has sent more than 500 of its military advisors to as sist the regime. Soviets are also involved in cross-border military opera dons against the Mujahideen, arid their pilots fly regime planes in bombing missions. With such an attitude, expecting release of more POWs is not justified. The Soviet mothers should put pressure on their government to change its hostile attitude. The end of hostilities will pave the way for the release of POWs. This should include Mujahideen captured by the Soviets and the Kabul regime, and full information about Afghans who went missing during ten years of occupation
Police foils plot to kill Sayyaf
Peshawar police have foiled a plot by KHAD agents to kill Prof. Sayyaf, the Prime Minister of the AIG and the head of the Islamic Unity of Afghanistan party.
Four KHAD agents, three Pakistani and one Afghan, were arrested and remote control devices and 15 kilograms of explosive were recovered from their possession.
Pakistan security organizations have also unearthed a ring of saboteurs who operated in Pakistan on behalf of KHAD, the Kabul regime secret police.
One of the ringleaders, Gulab Mohammad from Dir District, Pakistan, was captured. He and his1 brother were hired and trained' by KHAD in Jalalabad. They had hired some other local people to carry out subversive activities in return for money.
KHAD had ordered them to explode bombs in public places to create panic among the people.
The source said in the past six months, a total of 71 KHAD-sponsored acts of sabotage have been recorded in N.WJFP. alone.
Most of the Afghan refugees live in N.WF.P., and Peshawar saves as headquarters for the seven Pakistan-based political parties fighting for the overthrow of the Kabul regime.
Political solution
From page (4)
progress in its work because of a new grouping among the resistance parties. The three moderate parties have a common stand on the issues. They demand the formation ^of an assembly of several thousand people representing Ulamas, tribal elders 'and Mujahideen. They think such an assembly will vote for their leaders and evert the former king. Other parties insist oh a system giving key role to the Mujahideen. But the so-called fundamentalist groups do not have a common stand on the issues.
— — “ «i
Another Victory
The Mujahideen of Jami'at have captured Zebak garrison in Badakhshan . The details of the operation will " be published in the next issue of AFGHANews (God willing).