AFGHANews Vol 6, No6, March 15,1990, page©
Comment by: Abdul Basir
Jehad is not fratricide
Trip to US
From page (7)
The Iranian daily, the Tehran Times, in its February 20 issue calls the war between the Muajahideen and the communist regime fratricide and proposes a cease-fire.
Commenting on Shevard Natdze’s 10-point peace plan the paper finds some positive aspects in that proposal. The paper proposes a cease-fire before any political effort has started and says that after the Soviet troops withdrawal, the war in Afghanistan is just fratricide.
Every body is entitled to express his/her opinion about the issue and can propose ways of ending it, but labeling Jihad as fratricide is an unfair description of the struggle of the Mujahideen against the regime of Najibullah.
Fratricide is the crime of killing your own brother. Can we apply this to the Jihad of the Mujahideen against the communist regime of Najibullah? The writers of the Tehran times are Muslims and the paper is published by the Islamic republic. By Islamic rules can we call a Godless communist the brother of a faithful Muslim and label the fighting between them fratricide?
Our neighbors are fully aware of
Radio Tehran has reported that Dr. Mahmood Habibi, the speaker of the regime’s National Assembly, discussed with Iranian officials the situation in Afghanistan during his visit to Tehran.
The radio did not say why the high-ranking regime officer was in Tehran. Habibi was there when a delegation of the AIG was visiting Iran to discuss issues concerning elections with the nine-party alliance.
This is the first time such a high-ranking regime officer has met the Islamic republic. Ban says it supports the Resistance, but the warming of relations between Tehran and Moscow has resulted in closer contacts between die regime and Tehran.
The resumption of telephone links between Kabul and Tehran is another sign of the growing relations between Iran and the Kabul regime.
The Tehran Times, an English language daily in an article has asked for a ceasefire between the regime and the
the nature of the PDPA and its leadership. They know the crimes they have committed before the invasion, during the ten-years of occupation and in the past one year.
To our Iranian brothers understanding the nature of the PDPA and its leaders should not be difficult because the Todeh party is a sister organization to the PDPA The two parties share the same ideology and following the Soviet Union there is close cooperation between the Todeh party and the PDPA. Why this description of the Tehran times is not applied to the Todeh party? Why was the Todeh Out-lawed and its leaders imprisoned?. By comparison the PDPA has committed crimes which the Todeh might not have thought of.
Even if the PDPA were not a communist party, the war against it could not be called fighting between brothers because of the death and destruction they have caused in Afghanistan.
I hope the way of thinking of the Tehran Times is not shared by other Iranian brothers especially those in responsible positions of Government.
Mujahideen and has called the Mujahideen armed struggle against the Kabul regime fratricide.
KGB involved in Zia killing
A Soviet secret agent has said that the 1988 plane crash that killed Pakistani leader General Zia-ul-Haq was probably the work of the KGB.
Victor Sheymov, who broke his silence with a news conference on Friday after 10 years in the United States, said "the components are there" of a KGB operation.
"Assassinations of that calibre do not crane out of the blue," he said, "die Soviet Union was desperately trying to solve the situation on its Southern border. Zia was not very co-operative with the terms of Soviet demands."
Victor Sheymov said the thing that made him especially suspicious was the fact that Zia had met with an "high level" Soviet delegaion just before the tragedy.
Meeting with the officials
I met also with some State Department and USAID officials. The meeting of this year was different from previous years. Now the officers watch their words in fear of being misquoted. One of the reasons is that most of them are new to the job and do not have personal acquaintance with the members of the Afghan Resistance. In die past, they were looking for new ideas how to give support more effectively.
I expressed to them my concern about the concessions that Mr. Baker made to the Soviets during his Moscow's visit and . emphasized the need for true consultation with the Resistance so that a Genenva-type deal should not be signed behind the back of the Resistance.
To summarize, I have witnessed a change of attitude among the Americans. Although they still support the cause they are not emotionally involved with it because of the absence of the Soviet Army from Afghanistan and a decrease of fear for the 'Evil Empire".
Afghan friends in Congress continue to support the cause but they are not as strong as they were in the past. There will be less pressure on the administration to send effective aid to the Resistance.
A strong desire to see the end of the war is found there. This desire might force the Bush administration to give more concessions to the Soviet Union unless some progress is made in the battlefield. The Mujahideen leadership and field commanders must take into account these changes and adjust their plan of action accordingly.
9{dp us publish AFQMM&'Ws!
PCease send your donations to the fottowing account number:
fEMVD Account 9{p. 735-37 OPaBiB ‘Bank.Ltd.
‘Teheed ‘Baia, ‘Peshawar Pakistan
Regime ranking officer visits Islmic Republic