   AFGHAN NEWS_________Y.Q3LJI______N0.23______IV12/1986 PAGE 7
                        OVERWHELMING SUPPORT FOR THE UN RESOLUTION
 The debate on the Afghan issue ended with voting on a resolution calling for the withdrawal of foreign (Soviet) troops from Afghanistan The resolution was supported
 by 122 to 20 votes
 It is indeed a sign of rejection of the invasion and occupation Although the resolution is very soft in condemnation of the aggressor and avoids naming it, the overwhelming support to the resolution shows that the passage of time is not in favor of the Soviet invaders.
 It is also important to note that this victory comes after one year of Soviet diplomacy to minimize world political pressure. The timing of the so-called withdrawal of some units and the change of tone in relation to Afghan issue and the efforts to give the impression that the puppets in Kabul are gaining ground in the war, all failed to save them from a diplomatic defeat, Ail these steps could not change the mind of the absolute majority of the people of the world about the grave violation of international law by a superpower
 The Afghan resistance is thankful to all those countries who voted for the resolution and even to those countries who did not oppose it The efforts of Pakistan and other members of O.I.C is most admirable in this respect,
 As far as the application of the terms of the resolution is concerned no progress has been made While the resolution is clear about the right of the people of Afghanistan for self-determination and the choice of the type of government, these items have been dropped from the proximity talks which are taking place under the auspices of the UN.
 On the other hand Soviets have ignored all the resolutions and have continued their occupation of Afghanistan. By now the world should have reached the conclusion that the Soviets are not interested in finding a solution to the problem which they have created themseives.The Soviets are buying time to win a military victory against the people of Afghanistan. This policy has forced five million Afghan people to take refuge in neighbouring countries and a million have already died. Can the un-named resolutions and polite requests from the Soviet Union lead to a solution which the people of Afghanistan want? Only strong political pressure from the world community and military pressure from inside can force the Soviets to revise their colonial policies.
                         THE TEXT OF THE UN RESOLUTION ON AFGHANISTAN
 General Assembly .
                    Having considered the item entitled "the situation in Afghanistan and its implications
 for international peace and security".
 Recalling its resolutions ES- 6/2 of 14 January 1%0, 35/573? of 2 November 1980, 36/34 of November 1981 37/37 of 29 November 1982,38/39 of 23 November of 1983,39/13 of 15 November of 1984,40/12 of 13 November of 1985.
 Reaffirming the purposes of principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the obligation of all States to refrain in their international relations from the threat or use offeree against the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political indpendence of any State
 Reaffirming further the inalienable right of all peoples to determine their own form of Government and to choose their system free from outside intervention, subversion, coercion or constraint of any kind whatsoever.
 Gravely concerned at the, continuing foreign armed intervention in Afghanistan in contravention of the above principles, and its serious implications for international
 peace and security.