nFPHflH tCHS VCL. Ill, MO. 12, 15/b/ 1997 PRCE]2
recognized them soon and found them unacceptable. They also resented the regime's efforts to interfere in their religious, social, and economic life. Soon they realized the only choice they had vas to pick up arms and defend themselves against the communist's unbridled tyranny.
The followers of the Islamic movement, who •were already active in a struggle against the communist regime, came to people’s assistance and provided the much needed leadership The scope of Jehad expanded later on especially after the Russian invasion and grew nation-wide. But the fact remained that the pioneers of the movement formed the hard core of the resistance and shouldered the heaviest part of the war. At the present, the most effective and organized parts of the resistance are led by people who are connected to the Islamic movement.
In the course of the events, unfortunately the Islamic movement could not keep its unity and vas divided into several groups. They are the organizations called as "fundamentalist" by the Vestem media, a term to which they object because it does not convey their true nature.
Strong and effective resistance against a superpower in military and political fronts needs committed parties and dedicated members. The original Islamic movement provides both in Afghanistan today. The followers of the movement have proved themselves to be able to conduct the war in an organized and effective manner. They are sure that they can also run the country properly after the liberation. Their experience in their long and hard struggle, their commitment and dedication, and their popular Islamic ideology are certainly valuable assets fbr the future of a prosperous, free and Islamic Afghanistan.
                               NEWS
                              FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS
                                      QANDAHAR PROVINCE
According to a report sent by Mullah Naqibullah, Jami'at Islami commander in Qandahar, fighting between the Soviet-DRA forces and the Mujahideen was still continuing up to 24/V1987 in the five districts of the province. The report say that a large number of the enemy forces either have been killed or wounded and about one thousand of them defected to the Mujahideen bringing more than 400 guns with them. The report further says that 3 enemy jets were shot down by the Mujahideen. As a result of the enemy bombardments which takes place during the nights, a large number of civilians were either killed or wounded. However, the report does not give specific numbers for the casualties of the two sides and does not give the details of each campaign either.
                                              -* * *