Vol 5, No 14	July	15,	1989
US supports Afghans to determine their
future: Peter Tomsen
Jami'at leader seeks solution through fighting
The Jami'at leader feels the need for intensification of the war to end the present semi-stalemate in Afghanistan.
Talking to AMRC, he said, "The semi-stalemate that exists in the political arena of the resistance should be broken through military action. The war should intensify, so that the strong military stand of the Mujahideen to be restored"
Unless the Mujahideen have a strong military position, they cannot speak of a strong stand in political arena , he said.
He dismissed the view that the Mujahideen do not have the military strength to change the situation in their favor.
Reacting to the proposed formation of a neutral government he said,
. .'In my opinion^ a neutral government should not be discussed at the moment because the Mujahideen have formed a government.”
Regarding elections. Prof. Rabbani said, "I favor holding elections and approve them. Elections should be. held, of course not only in the camps but throughout Afghanistan."
When asked why he made no comments about the latest political developments, Prof. Rabbani said, "When the Mujahideen government was formed, we gave time to those responsible in connection with the political issues. But now we think the period of our political seclusion is over, now we should talk more about die issues."
Professor Rabbani was asked why the Najib regime did not fall in weeks as he had indicated in an interview in December. He replied, R1 had said that the Najib regime would not last if the Russians stopped their direct and indirect interference in Afghanistan. The Russians withdrew but their interference still continues."
The Jami'at leads' said, "For the liberation of Afghanistan, in the first place, attention should be paid to the military issues".
The US special envoy to the Mujahideen, Peter Tomsen, who arrived in Pakistan at the beginning of this month told the Mujahideen that US support for the right of self-determination of Afghans will continue.
Mr. Tomsen visited Islamabad , Peshawar and Quetta during his two-week trip after assuming his post as the special envoy.
He met with the president, prime minister and ministers of the Interim Afghan Government. He also met with some Afghan field commanders and visited two refugees camps in Kohat districts.
Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, the foreign minister of the interim government did not meet Mr. Tomsen. He was of the view that the US government should have recognized the interim government and Mr .Tomsen should have come as an ambassador not as a special envoy. While other leaders also wanted the same thing, they did not think it proper to refuse a meeting with the US special envoy.
Peter Tomsen emphasized in his talks with the journalists that his appointment was a sign of the continuation of American support for the Mujahideen. *
Some sources have said that US has decided to give military aid to the Mujahideen until the end of the current
year. Vorontsov, the Soviet Ambassador to Kabul has expressed hope that by the end of the current year fighting will end. By then, the American will stop giving military support to the Mujahideen, he says.
The Mujahideen are worried about the implication of setting a time for winning the war. Setting such a deadline would give the Soviets an idea about the limit of American patience and will encourage Moscow to help the regime to win the war. For the Soviets, who have economic problems at home, financing the war is a burden which they can not carry for a long time.
In his interviews Tomsen said that the US government had not fixed a time frame for the victory of the Mujahideen.
He said that he was an en voy to Afghan resistance and his appointment did not extend recognition to the interim government.
Tomsen's appointment was a compromise between the congress and the administration. Supporters of the Mujahideen in the congress wanted the interim government to be recognized while the administration was not ready to do so. A special envoy was an interim solution. It was a way to express support to the resistance without recognition of the interim government.
Mr. Tomsen is new to Afghanistan's problems. He needs time to learn. His success depends on how quickly he will learn about this complicated issue.
Developments after the Soviets troop withdrawal show the limitation of the mechanism through which the US government was receiving its information,
Tomsen who is based in Washington will visit Saudi Arabia after Pakistan to discuss Afghan issue with Saudi authorities.