AFGHAN


mJ2_________1grfslggfi_______P=2
   Finally I declare again that the cause of all these painful events in Afghanistan is the Soviet invasion. They should withdraw their forces from Afghanistan unconditionally and end the blood bath there. The people of Afghanistan should be left to decide their own future.
                          FROM NEHRU TO RAJIV
 S^-
       Ustad Khalili who is a living history of Afghanistan told the following story:
       Zahir Shah visited India . Ustad was a member of the delegations Nehru invited the Afghan guests to his house. The luncheon was served in the garden. Nehru rotated among the tables to show his hospitality towards Afghans, He come to the table where Ustad was talking to some Indians, They were speaking in Persian. Nehru joined the conversation and showed interest in Persian language. He told a story of his child- • hood, "When an Afghan delegation who were negotiating the independence of Afghanistan arrived in Ludhianna, the then capital of India v our parents sent us to the capital to stay there and every morning go near the guest house to -ee the Afghan delegation when they were going to the conference hall. Our parents prefered to send us to see Afghan delegation than to go to school. This was due to oatipataitt for Afghans who were strttgglingrfof 'their freedom•"
       History repeated itself. Now the struggle is between Soviets and Afghans. But the difference is that the daughter of Nehru could not appreciate freedom fighter/and did not support them. Now is Nehru*s grand son's, Rajiv*svturn. So far he has also failed to show his respect for the cause of freedom of Afghans. We hope he would correct the mistake his mother committed and follow what his grand father was admiring.
 The following comments, first published in the Russian-language magazine "Possyev" are a sample of the Soviet Citizens' views concerning the war in Afghanistan. Note that the Mujahedden are often referred to as "basmachi" - the bandits.
 A WOMAN DOCTOR FROM LENINGRAD
 People are very afraid about the possibility of being sent to Afghanistan. If call up papers arrive there la first of all the fear: "where will they send us?" Nobody even says anything openly, but everybody is afraid: "and all of a sudden to Afghanistan"?
                                                             V
WAR NEWS FROM USSR
A PHYSICIST PROM LENINGRAD
As a whole the people do not approve of the occupation of Afghanistan. Some Bay: “why have we become involved in that affair", others say: "of course it is not good but if it has come to a war, then better not on our territory".
   Several coffins have arrived near Leningrad, In Tolmachero village alone, 8 have arrived. The impression exists that more people are drafted to Afghanistan from the Leningrad region than from the city itself.
                             «
 AN ENGINEER FROM LENINGRAD
 One narrator's contributors went to Central Asia and said that hospitals there were full of wounded and often crippled soldiers. Officially at meetings they say that only bandits, hooligans, and baasachia, who are supported by funds of - US imperialism are active in Afghanistan.
 AN ECONOMIST FROM LATVIA
 At one time in large cities there were almost demonstrations against the war in Afghanistan. But this 1b no longer the case. Mainly because people are afraid: If they start to protest then more will be sent to Afghanistan. Everyone is afraid for their children.
COURTESY: VOICE OF SOLIDARITY JAN - FEB 1986.