VOL.II
NO. 11
1-6-1986
 %
"AFGHAN HEWS
 P-3
     Disasters are nature and the Chernobyl incident was one of them. Ho matter how much we hate the ..Soviet- government-'we' can..not~-critxcine .them .. for the incident itself. What is important here is the v;ay Soviet leaders dealt with the disaster. They tried to keep it a secret for as long as possible and they tried to pls.y down its dangers. Even though the in— cident—whirh will have an effect on the life of other people thousands ~of miles away can not. be considered small. This incident revealed the nature of MoscowAs—pjcdntojdLan-. dictatorship-whioh^xs afraid -of -telling the truth to its oeopie.
                                                                        n
     The Soviets claim that their system is the best . When such an-incidents occure. they~try to ..conceal it so as not to be criticised for the-eir failure. This incident also revealed the true nature of the Soviet system-in .its lack of care for millions of people- outside—the-Soviet bor-
~~ders.                         ,
                         NEWS FPOK THE BATTLEFIELD
 17-5-1936        -
 According to a report from Karukh district of Herat, Mujahideen of Jaxaiat--have, been able to liberate the villages like Kohi Chasht, Badazn Tow, Has-jid, Kazaax~ lbxd~and Dan, Chawbi. fliese,,vl II ages ..have-been,.,under—enemy^-s control.
 Deports add that during 3 days operation, Mujahideen killed 30 enemy soldiers and captured 31 light and heavy weapons. Five 1 lujahids were,mart-
 yred and ten injured.
                                JEGDALIK
                   According to a report from Jegdalik from 27 April to 51 ay Mujahideen . _ successfuly attacked three times on three different posts and outposts «
               -they were able to inflict heavy losses on them.
                            G.HQISAUD DISTRICT
 On 23 April, the Soviets and DHA forces intended to close the route to Herat province by using tanks and artillary. The fighting continued for
 3 hours.
 Mujahideen of Jazniat resisted well and as a result of which 20 Soviets and their puppets were killed and many others wounded. One Mujahid was martyred in the operation.
 During a. clash between Muj'ahideen and Soviets near Shindand District the Soviets lost 2 personnel carrier and its crew by rocket fire of Mujahideen. During this fighting 25 Soviet-puppet soldiers including Abdul Dali' commander of puppet post were killed.
    An Afghan IJews reporter talced with Basir Ahmad Ghoryani, a senior cozamander in Herat. Here we present some of his views about himself and situation in Herat.