ATGHAHe'vs Vo14, Mol?, September 1,19®,. Page?
From the diary of Jehad
Part - /
New road to Panjshir
by Mobamxsiad Bs'baq
I and a group of my fellov Mujahideen . crossed the
Pak-Afghan border on the 9th of July, It was a happy moment to be in Afghanistan. The first valley is controlled by a local organization calling itself The Islamic Revolutionary Government of Afghanistan1 or Dawiat. This organization is headed by a religious scholar of the Wahabi sect.
Dawiat
The Dawiat is very strict in dealing with the Mujahideen passing through its area. They must have pass-letters issued by the office of the Dawiat in Chitrah a border town in Northern Pakistan. It also levies taxes on goods passing its territory which reaches up to 10% in most cases.
In the past the Mujahideen destined tor the North walked about two weeks in Nooristan but now they spent only one day.
Noor istanis who traditionally raise livestock and farm their limited amount of fields have turned to business during the past ten years of Jehad. They have opened tea houses and using pack animals work in the transportation of goods and people.
Fortune
Thanks to their contacts with the Panjshir is. now they are searching for precious stones in their mountains. When we were there we heard the explosion in the mountains which was the work of fortune prospectors. At this time of the year Nooristan is green and full of flowers of all kinds.
The second pass which separates Nooristan from Badafchshan is the most difficult of ail the three passes leading to the Panjshir valley, it is full of rocks and the Northern side of it was heavily mined by the Communist forces when they controlled the area,
After one hour's walk from the top of the pass which is 5,000 meters high we saw the remains of a burned-out MI-24 Soviet gunship. One kilometer lower there was an MI'8 helicopter which was damaged but its body was intact. Nobody knows what happened exactly to these two helicopters and when.
The MI-8 helicopter is used as a shelter for travelers who want to spend the night and continue their journey the next day.
Landmines
Mines have claimed the lives of 15 people since the road was opened at the end of last year, The body of some of those killed could he seen lying along the road and nobody dared to bury them because of the fear of losing his life.
‘Hie Mujahideen have built a new route to avoid the mine
fields.
The natural lake of Munjan which ties at the foot of the pass is very beautiful. Two miles from the lake we came across some abandoned villages and fields. This groups of villages are called Meghnawoot. They were inhibited by the Ismailia community. Like the people of Munjan valley they had a good relationship with the Communist regime of Taraki. When the people rose against the Communist regime they came into conflict with them.
After the defeat of the Communist government the Ismailia community faced severe problems. Some of them remained in the area but a large number of them fled to the Communist controlled areas along the border with the Soviet Union.
Ismailia
The reason for this unfortunate development lies in traditional ill-feeling between the majority of the Sunni and the minority of the Ismailia. the Ismatiia’s mistake to take side with Communists and inability of the Mujahideen organization to defuse the tension after the liberation of the area,
Since the area was very strategic, because it was close to the Soviets border and the supply lines of the Resistance were passing through it. the Soviets decided to establish military posts in the area.
From 1981 to the end of £987 the area was controlled by the Communists and the local people became part of the regime militias.