AFGHAN NEWS
VOL. II
NO. 12
I5-6-1986 ,, ,.. P-4,
     under Mujahideen control and the enemy forces axe scattered over the area in defensive positions.
 26-5-86
2ttt3.ck6d
According to a report, Mujahideen^a Russian post including two residences of Soviet advisors in the Shena Gandoo area about three kilometers from Saroobi district. The attack resulted in the killing and wounding of 25 Russian soldiers and in the destruction of a military vehicle.
     In a joint air and ground offensive by Russian-DRA forces on liujhhideen bases in Teezin area,.       •'     ,  the Mujahideen were besieged 1$y the
     enemy for seven days. After raising the siege, the Mujahideen returned to their base without casualty.                y
     The Russians while entering the evacuated houses of people, poisoned food and gunned down animals such as horses and donkeys. On the way'back two tanks and one oil-tanker- of the enemy were blown up by mines layed by the Mujahideen.
    24r5r86
    In an operation against the enemy. Mujahideen captured two DRA sergeants along with three soldiers. The report adds that 0 AK-47s and 2 AK~74s were also captured by Mujahideen in the operation in Paghman area.
    26-5-86
    In retaliation, enemy forces air raided the Mujahideen-controlled areas and as a result some minor damage was incured by the property. In return, the enemy lost 6 tanks destroyed by Mujahideen rocket fire.
    22-4-86  .                 HERAT^PROVINCE
    An enemy armoured column comprising 200 tanks and APCs proceeding to Reeya Niqra area with the intention of wiping out Mujahideen bases in'the aforementioned area encountered Mujahideen resistance with the result that the enemy lost 21 soldiers among whom was a political Commissar from 112th DRA brigade.
    25-4-86
    On the eve of 7th of Sour anniversary, the Russian-DRA forces backed by 300 tanks, infantry soldiers and long-range artilleries moved towards Karta area. The enemy purpose was to deploy these forces in the area for the protection of Soviet and government high-ranking officials celebrating the anniversary in Bagh Karta area.
    The Mujahideen started shelling this locale with cannon and heavy guns resulting in the destruction of two tanks and the killing of many officers and soldiers.
    2-5-86
    Mujahideen attacked enemy posts in Mughol Bacha and Suhar areas and killed or wounded 20 soldiers and captured the rest. Thirty different kind of rifles and a large quantity of ammunition were-also'seized from; the enemy.