AFGHANews Vol 8, No 16, August 15, 1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Mohammad Mirza
Commander Mirza is in charge of security in southwestern Kabul. He has several battalions of the Supervisory Council's Mujahideen under his command.
He reached Kabul on April 26 and brought the headquarters of the Kabul garrison under his control . On May 7, he was placed in charge of security for southwest Kabul, which was threatened by Hczb Islami and infighting between Mujahideen groups.
Mirza was responsible for the liberation of the Salang Valley on April 12, two days before the fall of Jabulscraj and Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan, to the Mujahideen of the Supervisory,Council.
Mirza was appointed commander of the strategic Salang valley in 1989 after Qari Kamaluddin, the then commander of the valley, was killed in action. When he assumed his job, the road connecting Kabul to the north was protected by posts and minefields making it almost impossible for the Mujahideen to approach the road and ambush the enemy convoys.
Commander Mirza developed a new tactic. He dug 35 tunnels, along the road and put heavy weapons at the mouth of each tunnel. He.attacked the road by heavy weapons and the caves provided protection for the weapons and their crew from aerial and artillery bombardments. He is still the commander of Saiang and 700 Mujahideen frprri that Valley are working under him in Kabul.
Commander Mirza has taken part in many operations outside the Panjshir valley. He took part in the capture of Taliqan, Kcran-o-Munjan and Andarab.
Mirza was the commander of Shaba, a side valley in the middle of Panjshir and Scene Of heavy fighting, from the start of Jehad until he was posted in Salafig. During the first, second and third offensives against Panjshir, the Mujahideen under his command fought bravely against the Red Army and inflicted heavy losses on them. During the fifth and sixth offensives, Shaba was the scene of bloody clashes between the two sides. Iii an attack by the Sovietsto rescue a captured regime pilot, Mirza lost 22 of his Mujahideen in one day. But dozens of Soviet and regime troops also were killed, and 36 AK-74s, a standard weapon used by the Red Army, were captured.'The enemy failed to rescue the captured pilot.
When Commander Masood ordered the evacuation of the valley in preparation for the seventh Soviet offensive in 1984, Mirza and a few of his Mujahideen stayed behind to monitor the movement of the Soviet troops and launch small-scale attacks on their patrols. He chose springs as ambush spots and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. After each ambush, he and his men crossed the mountain into the next valley and returned several hours later. His presence proved useful. He got information about the minefields which proved extremely useful to Commander Masood when he returned to the valley about two months after the start of the Offensive,
Due to the leadership Of Commander Mirza and his continued military operations in Shaba, scores of young commanders emerged from among the Mujahideen. They rendered great.service to the cause of Jehad outside and inside Panjshir. Some of these commanders died in action; others such as Commander Momeri, Rasool Baig and Sayyed Alem are still engaged in Jehad.
Commander Mirza is a soft-spoken arid humble person who rarely speaks about his achievements. When asked whether he was surprised by the quick fall of the regime, Mirza said that he was confident Of the Mujahideen's victory and was aware of the work done by Commander Masood for the overthrow of the regime. "What surprised me," he said, " was the way some Mujahideen parties behaved. I expected the Mujahideen leaders to form a stable Islamic government to protect life and property of the people. Instead of cooperating with each other for achievement of peace and stability, they indulged in sueft activities which destabilized the
situation further.”
Commander Muza expressed sympathy with the people of Kabul who had suffered during the 14 years of Jehad and were still being subjected to hardship due to irresponsible actions by some indisciplined armed groups. He said: "The gunmen should be taken out of Kabul at any cost to let the people resume their peaceful lives."
Mirza joined Commander Masood in 1979 when lie launched attacks against the Khal.qi regime in Panjshir and Salang. Mirza accompanied Martyr Kifayatullah in the operation which led to the destruction of a key bridge in Salang.
When Masood was wounded and the Mujahideen retreated to the upper part of the valley, Mirza took refuge in Shaba and kept his contact with Masood. The upper parts of the valley, including Shaba, were liberated before December, 1979 Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Commander Mirza played a key role in keeping the Shaba base active.	'
Mirza was bom 42 years ago in Zinay, a village in the' middle of Panjshir valley. His father, Haji Ahmad Mir, was a farmer.
Mirza learned the basics of Islam in the mosque school of his village. He became involved in trade and opened a shop in Kabul Selling automobile spare parts.
Mirza served in the communications Section of the army in Jalalabad for two years during the lime of the King. After the communist coup of 1978, he returned to Panjshir to begin Jehad,
He is married and has four sons. Due to the war, his children missed the opportunity to attend school, but they have learned the basics of Islam in the mosque school.
* “sr-....	....—“—1—■—N
Jami'at builds mosque
Fazl Ahmad Azimi, the governor of Parwan Province, laid the foundation stone of a mosque and madrasa (religious school) in the city qf Gutbahar on August 1.
The madrasa has 36 study rooms, a cafeteria and a library. The mosque has the capacity of 300 worshipers.
The Reconstruction Committee of the Supervisory Council has provided the fund for construction of-the mosque.