AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page ©
Rabbani. While he wanted to have good relations with the countries supporting Jehad, Masood was reluctant to barter his freedom of action with material benefits. For example, Masood wanted to consolidate his bases in the mountainous regions at the start of Jehad, while donors of arms and ammunition prepared attacks on targets close to the cities. As a result, he did not receive arms and ammunition at a scale that he deserved. He compensated shortages of arms and ammunitions by training of his troops and careful choice of targets.
Masood's level of loyalty to Jami'at is a subject of discussion. Some people wondered how such a famous commander will remain sub-ordinate to Prof. Rabbani. But developments proved that not only he is loyal to Jami'at but also to its leader.
Relations between Masood and Arab supporters of Jehad have had several stages. At the start, he diiinot have support of Arabs. Propaganda by rival groups made Arabs suspicious about Masood. The publicity he got from the international press added to their suspicion. As the time passed, some Arabs started to reconsider their position. Late Abdullah Ezam played a key role in improving Arabs' relation with Masood. For some Arab supporters of Jehad who have a simplistic view about Jehad, the multi-dimentional work of Masood is not easy to understand. Such people can be easily affected by false propaganda.
Masood is the most popular resistance figure in Kabul. He not only did not indulge in firing rockets into Kabul, he also refrained from closing the Salang road not to hurt the people of Kabul. This policy was criticized by Afghans and foreign circles involved in Jehad and even they accused him of collaboration with the Kabul regime.
The most important political decision of Masood was formation of the Supervisory Council. This organization united Jami'at forces in 10 provinces of northeast Afghanistan and enabled Jami'at to play a leading role in Jehad
Masood is a member of the Islamic Movement and believes in establishment an Islamic government in Afghanistan. He joined the movement when he was a student in Polytechnic Institute of Kabul University. He worked closely with Habibur Rahamd, one of the students’ leaders of the movement, to organize a military coup against President Daud. Habibur Rahman gave Masood the job of recruiting army officers. After his arrest, Habibur Rahman advised Masood to cooperate with Hikmatyar
Masood took part in Panjshir uprising of 1975 as the leader of the group. From 1975 to 1979 he lived in exile in Pakistan. When differences between Prof. Rabbani and Eng. Hikmatyar surfaced, he supported Prof. Rabbani
Masood was bom 36 years ago in Jangalak of Bazarak, Panjshir District. His father Brigadier Dost Mohammad was an army officer. Masood finished primary school in Panjshir, Herat and graduated from Isti^lal high school in Kabul. He became a student of Polytechnic and went underground to avoid arrest when he was in the third class.
The most important achievement of Masood is provision of security to the people under his control In recognition to this achievement, he has been appointed the Defense Minister of the Islamic Interim Government in Kabul. He is also the head of the security com-N mittee to provide security for the three million residents of Kabul. This is an extremely difficult task but there is no other Afghan with experience and power of Masood to shoulder this huge responsibility.
* i vv
sY/A \>
Y\t
- X > 'i
/ i \\ t
AFGHANews congratulates Mujahideen and supporters of Jehadon the historic victory of the Afghan Muajhdien and formation of an Islamic government in Kabul.
Leaders agree on interim formula
The .Mujahideen leaders announced formation of a commission for transfer of power from the Kabul regime to a Mujahideen government as well as the formation of a leadership council and an interim government in a press conference in Peshawar on Friday April 24.
According to the formula, a fifty-member commission, consisting of 30 Mujahideen commanders, ten Ulama (religious scholars) and ten members of the Mujahideen parties, will be formed. The commission will be headed by Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddidi, who will be the head of the State of Afghanistan for two months. Hie council members will travel to Kabul and assume all the administrative, political and military powers from the Kabul regime. After two, months, the council will transfer the power to the Interim government and itself will transform into an interim council.
The Interim government will consist of a leadership council and a cabinet. It will function for four months. Hie leadership council will consist of the leaders of Mujahideen parties. Prof. Rabbani will be the president of the leadership council and the head of the state. The Mujahideen leaders, who are members of the leadership council, will not participate in the cabinet The prince minister of the cabinet will be someone from Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar. He will have three deputies: one from NIFA who will also be minster of foreign affairs; one from Hezb Islami Khalis who will also be minister of education; and one from Ittihad-i-lslami who will also be minister of Interior.
Prof. Sayyaf introduced Eng, Ahmad Shah as the minister of interior and deputy prime minister from his party. The defence minister will be from JIA. Prof. Rabbani introduced Commander Ahmad Shah Masood as defense minister. The chief justice will be someone from Harakat-i-Inqilab Islami of Mawlawi Mohammadi. The rest of the cabinet members will be decided later.
Four months after the Interim government assumes power, an Islamic council will be formed. That council will decide about the future Interim Government which will last for one and half years. During this time, preparations will be made for formation of an elected council which will form the government