——		— AFGHANews Vol 5, No 18 & 19, October 1,1989, page @	
W"' ■ ';:;3	Gorbachev's support to Najib sur-priseses US A front-page dispatch in The Washington Post has said that the Bush administration "seriously miscalculated" Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev's intentions in Afghanistan after the withdrawal of the last Soviet troops in February and did not think he intended to make a major military and political commitment to the survival of the Kabul regime. According to a senior administration official, the administration has been particularly surprised by the amount of money the economically strained Soviets have been willing to spend to sustain Najibullah. US analysts have estimated that Soviet arms shipments have been worth 200 million to 300 million dollars each month since January. The "mind-set" in the administration, die official was quoted as saying, had been that the Kabul regime lacked staying power and legitimacy, and that Mr. Gorbachev would accept its rapid demise in the name of better relations with Washington, and a policy of general retrenchment in Soviet involvement in Third World conflicts. Instead, Moscow has conducted a massive airlift of arms and supplies in a so-far successful effort to keep Najibullah in power. Bomb hits civilian bus A civilian bus coming from Kabul} via Logar province, was targeted from the air by communist aircraft on August 28, resulting in the death of one passenger and injury to another. Nazar Mohammad, die injured passenger said, the bus had reached Dubandi area of Logar when a bomb dropped from the air, hit the bus and set it on fire. He added that the communist regime has lately intensified air attacks on civilian convoys leaving Kabul, with a view to stopping the flood of fresh refugees from die city. According to another report, a vehicle of the Mujahideen hit a land mine in Ghazni on August 28. One Mujahid was seriously wounded.
"	" ' Editorial	
US miscalculation helps Kabul regime Shortages of weapons and ammunition may endanger the expected offensive of the Mujahideen against the communist forces. Transition from a defensive phase of the war to an offensive phase requires enough weapons and ammunition in addition to reorganization of forces and evolution of a proper strategy. In an offensive war more heavy weapons are needed, effective air defense is required and enough ammunition must be available. Now it is an open secret that Mujahideen have received arms and ammunition from outside to fight the Soviets and their puppets. They need to receive more weapons and ammunition to launch offensive attacks against a regime which is well-supplied by the Soviets. The United States has provided assistance to the Mujahideen to fight for the freedom of their country. The US has stated that it will continue its support to enable Afghans to determine their future. The recent proposal of the Soviets - that military aid to both sides of the conflict, the Mujahideen and the communist regime, should stop - was rejected by the US on the ground that it would have put the Mujahideen in a week position vis-a-vis the communist forces. The Soviets proposed a mutual cutoff of supplies only after leaving behind great quantities of weapons and ammunition during the withdrawal period, and sending more by land and air. This position of America was fair and was welcomed by the Afghan resistance. What is worrying the resistance is the difference between words and deeds of American officials. During the current year most of the Mujahideen fronts have received no arms and ammunition while the regime was given more than it needed by the Soviet Union. As the winter approaches some of the supply routes of the Mujahideen will be closed. Those who have visited the country recently and have talked to the field commanders confirm that delivery of arms and ammunition has been very limited during the current summer. Those fronts which rely on summer routes must wait for the next supply season. US officials have been very vocal this summer in claiming solidarity with Afghans. They have assured Afghans of continued. US support These messages reached the people of Afghanistan through VOA and other radios in local languages. The immediate result of these of promises was that the Soviets sent more arms and new weapons systems to the regime. The decision whether or not to give weapons to the Mujahideen rests with Americans leaders. What Afghans complain about is the US's unfulfilled promises. If the United States did not want to give weapons, why did it incite the Soviets to send more arms to the regime?- People guess differently about the reason for this contradiction between the deeds and words of American officials. One reason could be lack of precise information about the situation in Afghanistan. The US, despite having a huge organization for gathering information, equipped with satellites which watch the world, has little information about the true situation in Afghanistan. American officials made the mistake of underestimating the difficulties after withdrawal, and miscalculated Soviet intentions in Afghanistan. Mujahideen attempts to draw the Americans' attention towards the problem proved unsuccessful. A delegation of Mujahideen headed by Prof. Rabbani visited Turn to page (7 )	