    WHAN NEWS______VOL, n NO. n l/S/1986 PAGE 6
injure more than that. Every body in Afghanistan has lost at least one family member, has given up his property , has been jailed or humiliated . No propaganda can change their mind,
The outside world should be more careful. They should be on guard against so-calied Democratic but pro-Soviet countries. They should be on guard against some papers who have sold themselves to the Soviets and project their views and finally should be alert against the Soviet disinformation and propaganda war.
                          MU1APPED1 THE NEW SPOKESMAN OF THE ALLIANCE
                                                                                                        I
The Council of the Alliance met and decided that Prof.Sebghatullah Mujaddedi will be the new spokesman of the Alliance from July 22nd. Prof.Rabbani the outgoing spokesman announced the decision of the Alliance and wished prof.-Mujaddedi every success.
                                        FRENCH AID FOR INSIPE
French government has decided to give FF 2,000,000 for humanitarian purposes for the war-affected Afghans inside Afghanistan.
We appreciate the decision because millions of Afghan people are suffering as the result of food shortage and lack of medical care inside the country.
                                         HERAT CONTINUES TO FIGHT
Herat is the western province of Afghanistan and a stronghold of the resistance against the invaders. The Mujahideen of Herat under the command of Ismaeil Khan have organized themselves in a good military-civilian network which is able to carry on the war of liberation effectively. Herat is a flat area and has great logistic problems from outside the country. Little humanitarian aid has reached the area because volunteer organizations have difficulties going there.
A big part of Herat has been destroyed and a lot of its people have become refugees in Iran. Despite ail the problems, Mujahideen have been effectively controlling most of Herat and even most parts of the town in day light. Some years ago the enemy made use of some elements and turned them into militias. Last year the Mujahideen were able to kill the head of the militia forces and re-iiberate most of the East part of Herat.
Last year the enemy attacked the West part of Herat city (the part under Mujahideen control) and besieged it for 27 days. At the end they formed 6G security posts and planted mines to form what they called "the defensive line".
Mujahideen were cut off from the city. This meant less intelligence and supplies from the city for the Mujahideen.