AFGHANews Vol 7, No 5, March 1,1991, page
Wisdom of the
sagts
Bad habit proves fatal
Two dervishes of Khurasan were travelling in each others' company. One was in poor health and would eat only every other day. The other was hale and hearty and took three meals a day. t happened that they were arrested as they entered the gateway of a city and were charged with being spies. They were imprisoned in a house, whose doors were then bricked up. It was only after two weeks that their innocence was proved. By then the hale and hearty dervish was dead and the frail dervish was alive and well.
The public was astonished at this.
-A doctor said:" I would have been surprised if it had happened any other way. One was a glutton who could not put up with hunger; so when hardship came, he died miserably. The other was abstemious and patient as always, and so he survived. If you get used to eating little, poverty will be no great hardship to you. But if you indulge your every whim when life is easy, the least hardship will destroy you. If you keep stoking the furnace of your stomach, what will you do when you cannot find any more fuel to stoke.
For giveness clears sins
A group of thugs took a dislike to a dervish. They shouted insults at him and beat him up. The poor man was so upset, he went to his Pir to complain about what had happened.
" My son," the old man said," the dervish cloak is the clothing of humble contentment Whoever wears this cloak, must bear with misfortune. If you cannot put Up with frustration, you
are a false dervish and the dervish cloak is forbidden to you. The deep sea will not change if a stone is thrown into it If a mystic allows himself to be offended then his water is still shallow. If someone offends you, bear with him; for forgiveness will clear your sins. My brother! Since you must die, learn to be humble like dust before you cram ble like dust’
Secret of effective speech
I was once in the mosque at Baalbek delivering a sermon. My listeners were a dull-hearted, apathetic lot, who had never found their way from the superficial world to the world of inner meaning. I saw that the fire of my words had no effect on damp wood of their hearts. I felt I was wasting my time trying to educate the uncouth or enlighten the blind. Yet I was in the .middle of a long discourse explaining the verse where God says: "We are nearer to man than his jugular vein." I extemporized the following verse:
"The Friend is nearer to me than myself; how strange that I should be so far from Him. What can I say? What can I do? He is lying in my arms and yet I am still so far away."
I was quite intoxicated by my own eloquence: I had drained the cup to the dregs. A traveller happened to pass by at that moment. My last words seized his imagination. He cried out in admiration and the rest of the company followed suit and their tepid souls came to the boiL " God be praised, " I said. " This lone traveller was attuned to the
divine presence in his heart, while this crowd was spiritually blind to their own inner reality."
If you are talking to people who don't understand you, your eloquence will fall flat First win the hearts and minds of your listeners, then your eloquence will carry them wherever you will.
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
Ask the truth from a child. Meaning: An innocent child will give a true answer:
««2Uu»l <JLo» .
Being clean is half of the faith.
Meaning: Cleanliness is next to godliness.
^djWUU 4* £pljL ’
♦	^	yj* (5^
Escaping trom the rain 1 spent the night under an open drain.
Meaning: They who shuns die smoke often fall into the fire.
****!> J- cdrt
The Pushtun who took revqnge after a hundred years said; ” I took it quickly."
Meaning: Revenge is sweet; or, revenge of a hundred years has still its sucking teeth.