BFGHRH NEUS U0L.I11, HO,3, 11/2/ t96? PAGE 5
He is taking the office in a politically sensitive time. He has in front of him the task of consolidating the unity among the resistance, both politically and militarily, to be able to cope with the new political developments.
He will lead a seven member delegation of the Mujahideen leaders to O.I.C. summit in Kuwait.
We wish him every success in his great but difficult job,
                                A POSITIVE DEVELOPMENT IN BADAKHSHAN
Badakhshan, one of the most strategic provinces, neighbouring Soviet Russia, has for eight years been a scene of fighting between Mujahideen and Soviet-Kabul forces. Situated at the extreme North-Eastern part of the country, it has six districts and six * sub-districts. It is mountainous with deep valleys favourable for fighting. Majority of the people are persian speaking Tajiks.
                                                                     i
Militarily speaking Keshm, Darwaz, Yaftal, Wardooj, Darahim, Khash, Teshkan, Argu, ' Yumgan and Jurm are the most significant base areas with relatively effective commanders. No doubt all these Jami'at commanders were fighting against the enemy but with less co-operation among themselves
Recently in the late autumn 1986, commanders of Jami’at in Badakhshan have taken a positive step, organizing their scattered and relatively disorganized groups in one larger council called "Shora-i-Jabahat-e-Badakhshan, (The Council of Badakhshan
Fronts).
Commander Arianpoor from Keshm was elected as the head of the Council, commander Basir of Yaftai as his deputy and commander Najmuddin' from Wardooj as the commander of Jurm and Yumgan.
This council has to help Mujahideen in solving their political problems, organizing their military activities and co-ordinating their actions against the Soviets.
Civilians welcomed the establishment of the council since it will, no doubt, try to create an atmosphere in which civilians will be helped and protected.
It is worth mentioning that commander Arianpoor, the head of the council, has been effectively active in the organizational work in the North He is also a member of the Supervisory Council of the North. His mobile groups have participated in the victory over Farkhar and Nehrin government garrisons captured by Mujahideen in 1986. He is respected and loved by the people in Keshm and other areas in the North.
                                        RABBANI RETURNED FROM IRAN
Prof. B Rabbani, leader of Jami'at Islami Afghanistan, returned to Peshawar after
paying an official visit to Iran.
Prof Rabbani met Iran foreign minister and other high ranking officials and discussed with them the problems of mutual interest. Talks took place in an atmosphere of friendship and mutual understanding. Leaders of Iran assured Rabbani of their continous support for the resistance. Prof. Rabbani called the meeting with the Irani officials useful. He bad several meeting with refugees in Tehran and some towns bordering Afghanistan
Prof Rabbani described to the Afghan Refugees the political situation in Afghanistan, the Soviet motives behind the so-called ceasefire and national reconciliation by the
puppets.