AZGHANe-w TO*. JSfol2, June S3,1936, Page?
Who ’s who in the Mujahideen
Sayyed Najmuddin Khan
SAYYED Hessamuddin known as Commander NajiEuddin,32, was born in a beautiful small village called Chakaran in the strategic valley of
his father in their own land until the Communists tools power in 1978," said his representative.
Najmuddtn left his work and joined the
anti-Communlsts group in his valley. Since he had the qualities of leadership he was chosen as the head of SO people to attack the first DRA
valley and in a short time established Mujahideen control over Wardooj valley and Zaibak sub-district, close to the Soviet border. His responsibilities become greater and his work harder when the Russians invaded because his base, Wardooj, was one of the routes that the Russians used for their
Wardooj which is situated in the Baharak district of Badakhshan
province.
Ha$muddm'$ father Sayed j&lai was the head of the forest Preservation Office of Wardooj.
He was a respected man who feed a keen interest in sending feis children to school
Najmuddin completed his primary school in Wardooj and middle school in the district of Jurm.
It was in 1974 that his father chose to send him to Baghlan city to study agriculture. He stayed for three years in Baghlan city in the Agricultural Lycee. "It was a new experience to be far from home living in a hostel and meeting different kinds of people from different parts of the North said his Peshawar representative.
Najmuddin joined the Faculty of Agriculture at Kabul University in 1977. "Due to some personal and family problems he could not continue to stay in Kabul and went back to his valley. He was helping his family and
bases.
In July 197$, three months after the Tsraki coup he went to Pakistan and joined Jami at Istami. For six months he stayed in Pakistan and then he was sent to Nooristan to participate in the fighting against the Communists along with Nooristanis.
Najmuddin went back to Badafcfcshan and helped organizing the attacks against the sub-district of Reran Munjan and the lapis lazufy mine posts. The Mujahideen were successful. But in the attack against junn the Mujahideen faced a setback. He went to his native
convoys coming to Afghanistan.
Since 1986, Najmuddin has expanded his political and military work by meeting different commanders from Badakhshan such as Aryanpoor. Najmuddin participated in the activities of Supervisory Council of the North (SCN) under Commander Masood. He had an active role in the capture of Reran Munjan in 19$7. After the liberation of Koran and Yrnngan valley jami'at appointed him the commander of Yamagan valley.
He won a major victory over enemy forces around jurm and disarmed about 600 militias in a series of successful operations.
EXPERTS DONATE PRIZE TO AFGHANS
T¥0 London-based Muslim computer specialists. Mufti Barfe&tuliah and Mr. KhaUd Sabir of the Islamic Computing Center in London have donated Rs. 30,000 to the Mujahideen.