AFGHANews Vol6, No 7, April 1,1990, page @
communists
The coup will have a negative impact on the Afghan resistance's links with other Islamic movements . Hezb had gained a reputation of a revolutionary group, struggling for the supremacy of Islam, among the Islamic parties in Turkey, Gulf region, Pakistan and Malaysia. Hezb's action will make these groups suspicious about the whole resistance because most of them have little information about Afghanistan and do not differentiate between one group and the others.
The possibility of some small army units joining the Hezb-Tanai alliance still exists, but it may riot take the form of large-scale desertions.
Even if some army units join them, the balance of power may not change very much, because an army unit cannot act effectively in combination with guerilla fighters, especially when it is cut from supplies of ammunition and fuel and is deprived of its air cover.
The coup also created many problems for the communist regime in Kabul. It inflicted considerable military and political damages to the Najib regime. The coup was a source of embarrassment for the Soviet leaders who claimed the PDPA was united and in control of the situation. The coup involved a considerable number of Politburo members of the PDPA.
Najib has tried to cover the involvement of the Khalq faction in the coup, and to project it as an act of some individuals within the party. Purges in the army and the party will weaken the regime's military performance, and consume a lot of time and energy.
It will be difficult for Najib to get rid of the problems permanently because the differences between the two factions are deep-rooted and have spread to lowest levels of the party.
The Khalqis' desire to take revenge will ensure that the struggle for power within the PDPA will continue unabated.
In shot, the coup of March 6 would have been a positive thing for the Mujahideen if Hezb Islami had not supported it It could have been exploited for the benefit of Jehad without creating political and ideological com plexities for the resistance.
The Khalqi coup would have take place anyway, but Hezb's desire to seize power through a short-cut has created a new situation with unpredictable consequences.
US, Soviet experts discuss Afghan issue in Helsinki
The US and Soviet delegations' discussion of the Afghanistan issue in Helsinki ended on March 22 with no progress.
Every six months the two sides exchange views on Afghan issues at the technical evel.
The US delegation was headed by Under-Secretary of State John Kelly. Peter Tomsen,. the US special envoy to the Afghan resistance, was also included in the American delegation.
This meeting took place after recent visit of James Baker to Moscow, during which he tabled a new proposal for a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan. The next meeting of the foreign ministers of the two countries will be held in Washington in April.
At the end of the meeting, Mr. Kelly told the reporters that the two sides now have a better understanding of each other's position.
The Helsinki talks were held after the failed coup of March 6 against Najib. In the US view, the coup exposed the weakness of the Kabul regime and the need for its replacement by a broad-based government The Soviet Union, on the other hand, sees Najib's survival as proof of his strength.
Before leaving to Helsinki, Tomsen told VOA that Afghanistan is a burden on the Soviet economy. He said Soviet Union provided US $ 5 billion assistance annually to the Kabul regime, four billion in military and one billion in economic assistance.
Tomsen planned to visit West Germany, Saudi Arabia and Pakistan after the Helsinki talks.
In Peshawar he will meet with Mujahideen leaders, including members of Shia groups. Tomsen said Shias form an important minority in Afghanistan, and that the US supports their participation in the AIG. He indirectly accused Iran of preventing the Shias from joining the AIG.
Tomsen called the AIG a caretaker organization. He said that despite talk about broadening the base of the AIG, no practical steps were taken.
In Germany, Tomsen may meet with some prominent Afghan emigres. Participation of Afghan emigres living in the West in any future political step is thought to be essential to give it a broad-based image.
Pakistan Foreign Secretary Tanveer Ahmad Khan visited Moscow from 11 to 13 March to talk with his Soviet counterpart, Yuli Vorontsov about the Afghanistan issue. In a communique at the end of the visit, die two sides agreed on the need for a political solution to the problem.
The release of Soviet prisoners of war was also one of the topics of discussion between Pakistani .and Soviet officials. About 300 Soviet servicemen are missing in Afghanistan. Some are believed to be held by the Mujahideen.
Tanveer Ahmad Khan visited Moscow after a visit to Tehran during which he discussed Afghan issues with Iranian officials.
Ex-king asks Najib to step down
The ex-king has turned down Najib's request for supporting his "National Reconciliation".
Immediately after Tani's coup, Najib sent a letter to the ex-king asking his help for bring peace to Afghanistan.
A spokesman of the ex-king rejecting the offer said that the coup showed that the regime was at the brink of collapse.
Talking to the Italian News Agency after the coup, the ex-king called the Kabul regime illegitimate that could not play
any role in the future administration.
The Kabul regime spokesman told APP in Kabul that now that the hard-liners were dropped from the ruling party, the ex-king might find it easier to play a role in bringing peace.
Mohammad Zahir Shah has been living in exile since 17 years. The ex-king was deposed by his cousin, Daud in 1973. Daud had the support of the communists in his bed against the king. Daud was killed by the communists in 1978.