AFGHANews Vol 5, No 5, March 1,1989, page 5
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Abdul Basir Khalid
Abdul Basir Khalid, a well-known Jami'at commander in Badakhshan, was bom 38 years ago in a small village in Yaftal of Badakhshan.His father, a respected religious man, taught him Holy Quran, persian classics and poetry. His family was poor but with a rich religious background.
Basir was ten years old when he was sent to Faizabad city, the capital of Badakhshan, to join Kokcha primary school. After primary school he entered high school in Faizabad which was completed in 1970. "Basir was actively working against the Setamies (a communist regional party) while he was in 11 and 12 grades. "Every body knew that he was anti-communist” said commander Abdul Haq, his deputy.
"Basir participated in the demonstrations launched againsr the local communists." said Abdul Haq.
"He was a sociable boy, bright in his studies and obstinate in his decisions. He was helping me and his family in the household affairs.” said his father who lives now in Peshawar. "He loved swimming and hunting very much." continued his father.
Basir became a teacher in 1971 and worked in different schools in Badakhshan, for about nine years. He was a respected teacher leaching different subjects. He was a Muslim activist who was linked with like-minded teachers who had organized themselves to counter communist and Setami influence.
Communists under the banner of democracy in the late years of the King and during the rule of his cousin. President Daud, had spread their influence among the students. Setamis were the most active communist group in Badakhshan.
Some students and teachers along with a number of Ulamas (religious scholar) organized themselves to neutralize anti-Islamic activities. It was difficult because Muslim activists were threatened and persecuted by die government while communists had freedom to work. "Basir being a teacher had a bettor chance to reach students and warn them against the consequences of the communists' activities.
Basir was warned many times by the school principal and government agents not to get involved in politics." remembered his deputy. "But his poor house was a gathering place for the Muslim activists such as Faizur Rahman Shaheed, Faez, Ustad Naiem Shahna, Murad, Hares, Aziz and oth-
ers," said his deputy.
When communists took power in Kabul in 1978, Basir and his brother were teaching in a school in Yaftal, close to Faizabad. Basir was transferred to Munjan sub-district which was a re mote area.
Basir started to organize people against the local government in Munjan. He worked very hard to get weapons and attack the government It took him seven months to plan the attack . It was 12 April, 1979 when Basir with the help of the local people launched the first armed attack against the local government and captured the sub-districL
After the first victory. Commander Basir came to Peshawar to talk to Jami'at leader. Prof. Rabbani, and get help. Commander Basir did not stay long in Peshawar. He bought some weapons and a small amount of ammunition and went back to Badakhshan. "He knew that he could no longer go to the classes. He would not be able to teach but to learn from the war and the people." said his deputy.
He chose Yaftal as his first base. Badakhshan province, highly mountain-bus, is located in the extreme northeast of Afghanistan: Pamir mountain, the roof of the world, is located in Badakhshan. Wakhan which looks like a camel's neck is situated between Russia, China, and Pakistan. Darwaz, another district of Badakhshan, is surr rounded by the Soviets from three sides. All these made Badakhshan strategic both for the Russians and the Mujahideen.
Commander Basir knowing the above facts tried to establish his bases and think of a relatively better organization. Very soon commander Basir became one of the important commanders of Jamiat in Badakhshan.
Commander Basir’s military targets were the security belts around the city of Faizabad, the security posts around the airport and infiltrating the city itself.
Commander Basir’s base became a target repeated Russian attacks. "He survived two very large offensives one in 1984 and the other in 1985.” said his deputy.
Commander Basir is considered a brave fighter in his area. He is respected and admired by his people.
Mujaddidi elected Head of State, Sayyaf Prime Minister
From page (1)
The ministerial posts were also divided according to the same principle.
In the elections which were held on February 24, Mujaddidi won the highest number of seats with Prof. Sayyaf coming second.
The defense ministry went to Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi. Interior Ministry wait to Khalis, Foreign ministry to Hikmatyar’s party. Supreme Court to Gailani and Reconstruction to Prof. Rabbani.
The provinces close to the border and Kabul sent most of the delegates. Ningarhar sent 36 delegates, Paktia 29, Logar 30, Kunar 23 and Laghman 15. Herat sent 12 delegates, Faryab seven, Badakhshan seven and Kunduz 13.
The highest number of delegates -44- came from Kabul and the lowest from Nimroz which sent 2 delegates to the Council. Some parties ignored the recommendation of the supreme council and sent many delegates from one province and none from others. This was the reason for uneven representation of the provinces in the council.
Though the president and prime minister have been appointed it has not been decided what responsibility each will have. This may cause some ten sion in the future.
The top vite-winners, Mujaddidi and Sayyaf, head the two small parties, Sayyaf is considered to be a so-called fundamentalist with close ties with Wahabi circles in the Middle East.
Mojaddidi leads a so-called moderate group. He is a traditional scholar with close ties with die ex-king now living in Italy.
So far the assumption is that the fall of the regime is inevitable and might be an easy task. The role of the interim government will start after the fall of the regime. What role the gov-emment will play if the war continues for longer than is generally expected is not clear.
Few field commanders participated in the meeting of the council. The attitude of major commanders towards the new government has vital importance.