AFGHANsirs Vol 4. Mo 12, June 13,1968, Page 4
AFGHANews
PO Box 264, Peshawer-FaJkistan Tel: 41381
Editorial
THE Soviet government and the puppet regime have accused Pakistan of violating the Geneva accord by continuing their support to the Resistance.
On April 14 Pakistan and the puppet regime in Kabul signed an agreement in Geneva based on which the Soviet troops wilt withdraw from Afghanistan in nine months and the two countries have pledged not to interfere in the affairs of each other.
The Soviet Union and the puppet regime not only have raised the question with UNGOMAP (United Nations Good Office Mission in Afghanistan and Pakistan), but have launched a propaganda campaign through the mass media. They have ignored a request by the UN Mediator. Mr. Cordovez. who asked all the parties to keep the complaints confidential.
Najib, the head of the puppet regime made use of the disarmament session of the UN to repeat his accusations and the Soviet Foreign Minister also made use of his presence In America for this purpose.
They are not only complaining but threatening to slow down the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan. From the pace of the withdrawal it seems that they are already behind schedule. In one month they have withdrawn only a little more than 10,000 troops while the Geneva agreement asks from the Soviets to withdraw half of their troops within the first three months. Why are the Soviets raising this issue in this manner and what may they do?
The low moral of the puppet troops and fear of collapse of the regime are the reasons for the Soviet behavior.
The Soviets had wrongly thought that the regime could survive after the troop withdrawal if it is financially and politically helped.
The performance of the regime in the first month after the Soviet troops withdrawal started must have disappointed the Soviets. The Soviets are afraid that the withdrawal of their troops at the agreed pace may speed up the fall of the regime.
Therefore accusing Pakistan of violating the Geneva accords could be an attempt to justify stowing down the speed of troop withdrawals and to buy time to support the regime.
Rajiv, the Indian Prime Minister, also shares the Soviets' fear about the quick fall of the regime. When he was visiting New York, he warned the world about the danger of a fundamentalist’ take over in Afghanistan.
Can the Soviets save the Kabul regime by staying a few more months or even years in Afghanistan? The answer is no, Sf the Soviets failed to impose the Communist regime on the people of Afghanistan in S years, how they could do tharin a few more months?
It will be wiser for the Soviets to speed up their troop withdrawal so that their casualties decrease. If they
Masoods
eldest
brother
missing
COLONEL Been Mohammad, 50, Commander Masood’s eldest brother who was living as a refugee in Peshawar is missing since June the second.
Efforts by his family, friends and police have not been successful in tracing his whereabouts and what happened to him.
Jams'at source believes that his disappearance is the result of a
political ly-motivated organised plan against Commander Masood and Jami'at.
Been Mohammad was an ex-army officer who migrated to Pakistan eight years ago.
He was working in one of Jami'at Isiami's offices in Peshawar.
Prince meets Mujahideen leaders
THE UN Coordinator for reconstruction. Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan has, on the occasion of his meeting with the leaders of Mujahideen's Islamic Alliance on May 30, reiterated that Afghan refugees are free to return voluntarily to Afghanistan.
Thanking the UN sponsored agencies for extending cooperation to the refugees, the Alliance leaders said that the refugees will not be able to return to Afghanistan until the complete withdrawal of Soviet forces and the removal of the Najib regime.