Vol 5, No 7
April 1,1989
India sends food, drug to Kabul
India flew eight tons of food and medicine to Kabul on March 23 as part of a deal made earlier with the regime foreign minister, Abdul Wakil who paid a visit to New Delhi.
Nine tons of food was supposed to be flovyn later. Wakil, on his return fom Delhi told the reporters in Kabul that India had agreed to airlift UN food supplies to Kabul in addition to bilateral aid provided to the regime;
Earlier, India announced a donation of three and half million dollars to the UN emergency fund for Afghanistan.
Due to road blocks assistance to the Kabul regime will either be flown or sent through the Soviet Union.
India is the only country outside the Warsa Pact which has close relations with the communist regime in Kabul.
The UN wanted to airlift food supplies to Kabul but could not continue after one flight by an Ethiopian plane because no airline was ready Jo take the Tisk of flying into the besieged city.
Mujahideen get Afghan seat in QIC
The Afghan Mujahideen gained a major political victory when the Afghan seat in the Organization of Islamic Conference (OIC) was given to them.
The Afghan seat had remained vacant since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979.
The 45-member ministerial meeting of the organization was held in Riyadh in the second week of March to discuss different issues concerning the Muslim world.
Thirty five members voted for the membership of the Afghan Mujahideen Alliance while 10 countries, mainly Arab radical states, either abstained from voting or opposed the decision.
When the foreign Minister of the interim government of the Mujahideen, Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, was invited to occupy the Afghan seat, he was greeted with the call of Allah-u-Akber (God is great) by the foreign ministers in the conference.
The Soviet Union and the Kabul regime regretted the decision of OIC. The government of Najibullah had also asked the meeting to give the Afghan seat to the regime.
The OIC resolution on Afghanistan also pledged for continued humanitarian assistance to the Afghan refugees and asked the Islamic Development Bank to study the scope of assistance required for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
Prof. Mujaddidi, the president ol' the interim government of the Mujahideen lauded the decision of the OIC and asked the member states to recognize the interim government of the Mujahideen.
So far, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Sudan have recognized the interim government.
The Mujahideen consider the OIC move a major political victory for their cause. The Afghan Mujahideen became the 46th member of OIC.
Sovits intesify sending arms to Kabul regime
The Soviet Union has intensified sending arms and ammunition to the communist regime in Kabul.
The Soviet Deputy Foriegn Minster, Youri Vorontsov, said on March 16 that the Soviet Union has resumed sending arms including medium-range Scud missiles to the Kabul regime. Most of these weapons are airlifted.
Vorontsov who is also the Soviet Ambassador to Kabul did not say when the Soveit Union stop sending arms to the regime.
The Soviet army left behind weap-
ons and military installations worth billions of dollars.
In an interview with a Soviet paper, General Valentin Varennikov, the > Head of the Defense Ministry Operation Group in Afghanistan said that the Soviet Union has given all sorts of weapons to the regime in Kabul. These weapons include tanks, armored cars, planes, aritillery pieces and rockets.
The Soviet General said that the regime has an uper hand in arms and ammunition.
The Soviet General criticized Biezenev for sending the Red Army to
Afghanistan. He claimed that the com munist regime had an army of 300,000 men which was well-equipped and well trained.
It is believed that the Soviet General's interview is designed to tell the Soviet people that the defeat of the regime is not due to shortages of arms and ammunition.
The Soviet Foriegn Minister has shown concern about rocket attacks against the Kabul airport.
He warned the Mujahideen against attack on the Soviet embassay and its personnel and said that Soviet Union will react to such attacks.
If there is any retaliatory action against the Afghans it will be in the form of carpet-bombing of the populat ed areas and firing long-range rockets.