AFGHANews Vol 6, No 7, April 1, 1990, page ©
(PliilPlIPlII::	v ■Will
glillll	•••-•••• llllillf:; 111I.
S|ii|iii<	TlllT	:*§R;
eiSs
PPBIWma i%»Pi8W
^W^awafe ffafrjjtahllta* YillMil-; * ■:.::«
Editorial
New year needs new thinking
The Afghan new year began on March 21. The new year is a happy occasion, celebrated with hopes of peace and prosperity for the family and society.
In Afghanistan die happy celebration of the new year,is a memory of the past. The Communist coup of 1978, followed by the Soviet invasion of 1979 has left 75% of the country devastated, one million dead and more than five million refugees. The war still continues and most Afghans are threatened by famine and disease.
When Soviet troops left Afghanistan in February 1989, the people hoped to see an end to the war, and to resume their peaceful life. This dream was not fulfilled last, year because the Soviet Union continued to impose the illegal regime of Najibullah on the Afghans by supplying it with powerful weapons.
The Soviet troop withdrawal raised hopes for a quick Mujahideen victory and the return of peace after a decade of war. It did not happen because of many internal and external reasons.
One was that the Soviets continued to send large quantities of arms and ammunition to the Kabul regime while military supplies for the resistance decreased.
The Afghan new year is a decisive year for the future of Afghanistan. The resistance should learn its lessons from last year's experiences to correct its mistakes, modify its tactics and organize itself better.
The events of the current year hinge around the situation on the battlefield. The better the Mujahideen perform on the battlefield, the sooner peace will come.
In order to fight better, the reistance needs to coordinate its military actions. It also needs to reorganize itself to wage an offensive war. The supporters of the resistance should supply the needed weapons and ammunition to the resistance and leave the Mujahideen to choose the type of fighting suitable to their situation.
The political leadership of the resistance should pay closer attention to the battlefield and should not spend all its time and energy in political debates.
They also should realize that the resistance is facing a sophisticated Soviet propaganda and disinformation campaign to undermine moral and material support of the outside world for the resistance.
During the current year the resistance faces new challenges. A lot of outsider who supported our cause are getting impatient about the delay of the Mujahideen's victory. Anti-Soviet feeling in the West, which was a major factor in their support for the Afghan resistance, is replaced by sympathy for Mikhail Gorbachev. As a result of these changes the Soviet Union will come under less pressure to change its Afghan policy and leave Afghans to decide their future. This means that the Afghan resistance cannot count on outside support for much longer.
Since the resistance is not ready, for obvious reasons, to sit down with the Kabul regime at the negotiating table, it is left with one option: the escalation of war against the regime.
Once the Soviets and the regime have realized that they cannot hold out for long, the door to a meaningful political solution will open.
This option requires hard work and united action. Last year showed that the Mujahideen's present level of coordination and military organization are not adequate to defeat a well-equipped regime fighting a defensive war. -
Despite all the difficulties, the majority of Afghans want the end of the communist regime even if it means continuing the war. The resistance is still popular and in control of the strategic areas. It has the potential to go the offensive despite shortages of equipment and other resources. Let us hope that the coordinated efforts of the Mujahideen will make the year 1369 the last year of suffering for the Afghans.
AIG resumes election talks with S bias
Efforts to bring the Iran-based Mujahideen parties in the fold of the AIG, and to gain their support for the proposed elections, continues with no sign of success.
Sayed Ahmad Gailani, Chairman of the Election Commission of the AIG, went to Iran on March 17 as the head of a delegation sent to persuade the Shia parties to participate in elections.
Earlier he had headed a delegation from the AIG whicha had negotiated with the Shia parties , but which made no significant progress.
The Shia parties are busy unifying their ranks to try to get a better deal from the AIG or any other future arrangements.	*
A three-day seminar of Shia groups opened in Tehran on March 15. The seminar stressed the need for unity among Shia groups.
Shia parties also announced formation of a single party by the name of Wahdat-i-Islami (Islamic Unity). But later a leader of one of the parties said that the unification was in its primary stages. There are nine recognized Shia parties based in Iran. Shia parties have had problems among themselves, whiph have at times led to armed clashes.
A spokesman of the Shia parties in Tehran rejected the claim of the Kabul regime that Najib had held talks with the representative of Nine-Party Alliance. He called the claim a subversive measure by the Kabul regime to defame die Shia Mujahideen.
UN links Kabul with Mazar and Herat
The office of Sadruddin Agha Khan has informed the Mujahideen parties that it has hired a plane which will fly between Islamabad-Kabul, Kabul-Mazar and Kabul-Herat for humanitarian missions.
The Mujahideen are asked not shoot at the plane which bears UN marking and is flown by two Danes.
According to the letter of Prince Sadruddin's office the plane is a Beechcraft King Air 200 which will be used for humanitarian purposes. It will be stationed in Pakistan.