AFGHANews Vol 7, No 9, May 1, 1991, page ©

{(host garrison town was liberated by the Mujahideen on March 31
Khost victory ignites Afghan battlefields
The liberation of Khost, at the start of the Afghan new year, las given life to the battlefields in different parts of Afghanistan.
Aerial bombardments, and SCUD and Frog missile attacks continue at Khost. It seems that Kabul, losing hope of regaining Khost, wants to destroy it.
The Mujahideen showed a number of regime generals and some soldiers captured in Khost to the press. Among the soldiers were children of 13 and 14 years of age who had been pressed ganged by the regime.
Commandbr Haqqani, the most powerful commander on the Khost front, has said that he will only release prisoners when he is sure that they will not join in fighting against the Mujahideen.
Some important communist officers who were in Khost when it fell to the Mujahideen have disappeared. Some of them might have reached Gardez with the help of local tribes friendly to the regime. Some others might have been released with the help of Shah Nawaz Tanai, the former defence minister of the regime, who joined Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) one year ago.
In a press conference held in the border town of Miranshah, Jalaluddin Haqqani said T-55 tanks captured from Kabul troops in Samar Khail, Jalalabad, and Zabul played a significant role in breaking the defenses of the Kabul regime in Khost.
He said the Mujahideen lost 150 men in the fighting for the liberation of Khost while 300 Mujahideen sustained injuries. The casualties of the Kabul regime were twice that.
The Kabul regime, which tries to adopt an Islamic face, was embarrassed when the Mujahideen, showed
journalists a great deal of communist literature printed in Moscow, and a considerable number of Vodka bottles they had captured in Khost.
The Mujahideen are discussing their future courses of action. Gulbuddin Hikmatyar talks about attacking Kabul, while the rest of the Mujahideen are in favor Of attacking weaker targets like Ghazni, Qalat, Gardez and Logar. It should mentioned that the council of commanders, in its meeting in Shah Salim, had decided to start operations against weaker targets.
The Mujahideen attacked Gardez garrison with rockets during Eid. The purpose was to put pressure on regime forces. The Kabul regime continues to consolidate the defences of Gardez by bringing in more supplies and troops. It has also increased aerial bombing of liberated areas around Jalalabad to prevent a possible Mujahideen attack on that city.
Kunar-Laghman road, used by traders. Mujahideen and refugees, is a target of aerial and artillery attack of the regime. The Kabul regime fired SCUD missiles into Asadabad, the provincial capital of Kunar, causing heavy casualties. The Mujahideen have intensified their activities, in Faryab, Jawzjan, Kunduz and Herat.
Najib, who was shocked by the defeat of his troops in Khost, has said that his troops would recapture the isolated outpost.
The liberation of Khost has put the Afghan issue back in the limelight of international media. Pakistan has announced it is launching an initiative for achieving a political solution by talking to the Soviet Union, Iran, Saudi Arabia and the United States.
the victory in Khost has given the Mujahideen self-confidence and they are now optimistic about a military solution to the problem.
Blast destroys weapons dump
An explosion in the Balahisar Fort in Kabul destroyed a considerable amount of arms and ammunition belonging to the Kabul regime on April 11, MIDI A reported, quoting its sources within Kabul.
According to the report prepared by a three-member committee which investigated the incident, the following arms were destroyed in the explosion: 20 different types of machine guns, 14 anti aircraft guns, 19 artillery pieces, 16 mortars, 10 vehicle-mounted rocket launchers, more than 1000 light weapons and a large amount of ammunition.
The official report blames official negligence for the explosion, but sabotage by the Mujahideen could not be ruled out.
No figures' are given for casualties in the explosion but they are said to have been heavy. Several armored cars and trucks parked nearby also burned.
India gives limbs to regime's veterans
India is to provide artificial limbs for 1500 amputees among regime troops, Kabul TV reported.
India will also help in building a 300-bed maternity hospital in Kabul.
The Soviet Ambassador to Kabul has said that his country will continue to give assistance to the Kabul regime despite economic difficulties at home. Radio Kabul reported.
He said daily landing of transport planes in Kabul to bring food from Soviet Union is proof of Soviet resolve in supporting the Kabul regime.
American sources estimate that the Soviet Union gives monthly aid of 300 to 400 million dollars to the Kabul regime.
tttetp us -puBCisfv
TUase send yourdonations to the foCUnving account number:
JTJCVD Account 735-37 9fabib‘Bani^Ltd. Ijekkcd'Baba, Teshaioar ‘Pakistan