AFGHANews Vol6, No 12, June 15,1990, page ©
Terrorist actions aimed at
resistance
Afghanews conducted an exclusive interview with Prof. Burhanuddin	Rabbani,
Jami'at Islami Afghanistan leader, on June 10,1990 about some of the problems the Mujahideen are facing. Here is the full text of the interview:
Q. Some prominent figures of the resistance have been killed in Peshawar recently. Who are the killers and why do they do it?
A. I think these killings are highly organized. This may be the work of the Kabul regime and Maoists. I do not rule out involvement of some groups, in some of the cases, who are eager to take power in Afghanistan by any means. Terrorists have intensified their actions while the Mujahideen have been working to hold elections and commanders discussing ways to intensify their military activities against the regime.
It is an important time for our Jehad. Countries involved in the question of Afghanistan are trying to find a solution to the problem. The enemies of the Mujahideen want to give the impression that the Mujahideen are unable to bring peace to Afghanistan. They want to kill Afghans and put the blame on the Mujahideen themselves.
These terrorist actions are also directed against Pakistan. They want to create law and order problems for Pakistan while the Kashmir issue is at the center of Islamabad’s attention and the situation in Sind is tense.
Q. What should the Mujahideen and Pakistan government do to protect the innocent refugees?
A. Provision of security for the refugees is the responsibility of the Pakistan government. The Afghan interim government can not create a parallel security organization to fight against terrorists.
But the Mujahideen can help the security forces of Pakistan to identify suspicious individuals and groups who might be a security threat
The Mujahideen's cooperation with the security forces of Pakistan in the past has resulted in the arrest of enemy agents. There is a need for close cooperation between Pakistan security organizations and the Mujahideen.
Q. What is your opinion about the attacks on foreign relief organizations?
A. The attack on Shelter Now International in the Kacha Gari Camp and inside Afghanistan was against the interests of the Mujahideen.
If there is any problem concerning the work of the relief organizations it can be solved easily through negotiations with the officials of these.organi-zations. Such attacks will scare off the relief organizations whose work is vital for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
Q. A paper published in Saudi Arabia said you were against the commanders' meeting in Paktia. Is that true?
A. I support any effort by the commanders to coordinate their military activities and escalate the war against the Kabul regime.
Any effort separate from the Mujahideen parties and the interim government is harmful. It is not in the interest of Jehad for commanders to involve themselves in purely political activities at the expense of attention to military operations. .
Q. What is your view about Hezb Island's (Hikmatyar) statement that it will not allow humanitarian assistance sent by the UN and AIG to enter Afghanistan?
A. Hezb's stand is hostile towards the people of Afghanistan. Islam does not permits stopping food to reach the needy people.
Hezb’s animosity toward the AIG is deplorable. The AIG is an organization comprising six parties. How can one be sincere to the unity of Afghans and at the same time declare war with the AIG?
Q. What political steps will the AIG take to break the present stalemate?
A. Elections are on the AIG’s agenda. Some prominent Afghan figures and Shia parties have been invited to come to Peshawar. They will discuss, with the AIG, ways of forming a broad-based goverment Hopefully they will agree on a formula for holding elections.
A three-day meeting of Jami'at copimanders • and” reliirou^’; of Faryab l^ovihce began on May IS in AJmar sub-district, Cmdr, Aibab Hafiz tddHNA.;,,
The meeting discussed ways of cwrdiriating the	bf
teisfed; |t$;:Vi full::::: :;sug||0;-, • .to ' the Supfcrvis^^	by
Ahmad ShahMasotxL :	'
mtm
Radio Moscow has teimed the appointment of a militia commander
good example Of:pb^|®fog be-
|||en:;:-'; die	•• an|||||e:	the
Mujahideen.
mtm
ed m of the White House during
ex
press theifr a»ger at continued inter-
ference by the Soviet tlniort in
The demonstration was orga-
m*m
The Kabul regime has said dial if the Mujahideen stop Sri»g'lockets into the cities, theregime. :will stop nsing. -xiSCODt' missiles ijpafiist tbemJhe Mujahideen have rejected the offer;:; r
. - III Ilf!|§|!||||	11 • 11 II!!!!
The name of the ruling party in Kabul will be changed from People’s Democratic Party of* Afghanistan to the Homeland Parly {Hezb-i-Watan). The party program will also be amended at the party congress, which is to be held soon. .
A member of the regime parliament has	holding	of	a
beiauty contest in Kabul by the ruling party's youth branctuifesaid the con test should not have been held in an Islamic country which is at war.
Farid .Mazdak, a politburo member of the FDPA, has admitted that the recent peace initiatives by Najibuliab have failed to gam the support of the opposition, ifhe^isiljtia^ dvesJncInded. Iffring the cmiCTgenc^ and changes in the constitution. :