AFGHANews Vol 7, No 16, August 15,1991, page ©
Sheghnan liberated
The Mujahideen of Jami'at, under the command of Abdul Basir Khalid, liberated Sheghnan District, Badakhshan Province, on August 3, Hindukush News Agency reported.
The Mujahideen : captured 300 enemy soldiers and killed or wound 66. They seized die following weapons from the enemy:
•	Howitzers: 3
•	Mortar (120 mm): 1
•	Mortar (82 mm): 2
•	RPG-7 rocket launchers: 5
■AGS-17 grenade launchers: 5
■	ZPU mchine-guns: 3
■	Light weapons of
different types: 500
•	Large quantities of ammunition
Three Mujahideen were killed and eight were injured in the operation. This is the fourth district which has fallen to the Mujahideen in Badakhshan in the past month.
Sheghnan is situated near the Soviet border. Its inhabitants are mainly Ismailis. It has been dominated by the Khalq faction of the PDPA.
This is the first time that Sheghnan
Abdul Basir Kahldid
has been captured. Sheghnan militia have fought throughout much of - Badakhshan since the start of die war.
Khalqis gained influence in Sheghnan through a number of students who studied in Ibn-i-Sina and Darul MoalUmeen Schools in Kabul, which were Khalqi strongholds. Hafizullah Amin, the second Khalqi leader, once served as the principle of Ibn-i-Sina schooL
With the fall of Sheghnan, Faizabad remains the only major enemy base in the province. Recently
Mujahideen attacked military installations in the city with ground-to-ground rockets. Increased fighting	in
Badakhshan has forced the UN to abandon its humanitarian projects in the province. Besides Faizabad, the Kabul regime has a presence in some areas of Darwaz close to the Soviet border.
Basir Khalid is a Jami'at commander who controls large areas around Faizabad, the provincial capital of Badakhshan. He cooperates with the Supervisory Council headed by Ahmad Shah Masood.
IVlujaliideen ban poppy
growing in
An aid worker returning from Badakhshan Province disputed a report published in London about an increase in poppy cultivation in that province.
Mirwais Jalil, a resident of Laghman Province who works for a relief organization, told BBC that he did not see any poppy cultivation in some parts of Badakhshan. In other areas, he said, it was limited to small plots of land. Most of the farms were cultivating wheat.
He said the Mujahideen commanders in Badakhshan have banned poppy cultivationT'This is the reason for a sharp decrease in poppy cultivation in that province, despite soaring prices of opitim which could be tempting for
poor people.
In some areas of Badakhshan farm-os have traditionally cultivated poppy. The opium obtained was used for medical purposes, and some was sold in remote border areas (mainly inhabited by Ismailis) where people were addicted to it
The future of poppy cultivation in Badakhshan looks dark because Jamiat Mujahideen are opposed to it on religious grounds. They are also trying to find alternative means of living for the local people by starting development projects. Any assistance by the con-coned international organizations could make the Mujahideen's job of fighting drug abuse much easier.
REGIME ISSUES LOOTING PERMIT
A milita commander has told a Western journalist in the northern city of Mazar that the Kabul regime has given him permission to loot areas that he captures from the Mujahideen. The journalist, who visited Mazar-i-Sharif recently, reported that the ordinary people in Mazar complained of militia excesses against them.
A militia commander. Colonel Hashmat, told the reporter that the Kabul regime has given the militias permission to loot the areas they capture from the Mujahideen.
The reporter said that the Kabul regime's militia forces are a means to terrorize the regime's opponents.
The militia commadner told him that if the regime did not pay him a good salary, he would change sides and fight against KabuL
Colonel Hashmat, who belongs to Rashid Dustam's militia group said he was opposed to the return of peace in Afghanistan becaue he would lose his influence.
Mir Abdur Rahim Ansari, the governor of Mazar, admitted that it is now beyond the Najibullah regime's ability to control the militia groups.
A regime security officer in Mazar said Dustam militiamen cut off Mazar’s electricity some time ago, apparently protesting the lack of electricity in then-own area. He said militia commanders act like kings in their areas, and there is nobody to stop them from doing whatever they want
International relief organization in Mazar have said militia forces are disintegrating into smaller groups who launch independent operations in their respective areas. Violations of law and order have increased in the areas under control of militiamen.
Help us publish
AFGHANews!
Please send your donations to the following account number:
JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tgfrkal Bala, Peshawar 'Pakistan