AFGHANews Vol8, No 23, December 1, 1992, page I
Obituary
A friend of Afghanistan dies
Stephen Tuillier, a supporter of the Mujahideen, died in Paris at the age of 30 on October 30 of a heart attack.
He visited Afghanistan and Pakistan many tunes during the Soviet occupation of the country to offer assistance to needy people and take the news of Jehad to the people of France.
He-paid several visits to suburbs of Kabul. Ningarhar. northern provinces, Panjshir and Herat as a member of medical and relief teams.
Besides his relief services, he took photos and talked to media about the situation in Afghanistan. A picture of Commander Masood, taken by Stephen, was made into a poster by a Pakistani company, thousands of which were sold in the market.
Stephen's interest in Afghanistan was natural because he was bom in Kabul when his father worked as a staffer of the French Embassy He teamed Persian and spoke h like a native of Kabul. Once he travelled to Herat via Iran posing as an ordinary Mujahid. The Iranian frontier guards did not recognize him.
Stephen was witness to an assassination attempt on the life of Commander Ismail Khan by communist agents. Stephen and Ismail Khan were traveling on a jeep in the western part of Herat when they were ambushed. They escaped unhurt.
Stephen accompanied a group of journalists to Kabul as their interpreter after the Soviet troops withdrawal. During an interview with Najib, the dictator was surprised by Stephens command of Persian. Stephen, however. was disgusted by the lies of Najib and was waiting an opportunity to express his anger.
Najib paid a visit to France to attend a UNESCO meeting. French political experts on Afghanistan, who thought that Najib would remain in power, advised French TV to interview him and treat him kipdly.
Stephen was selected as a translator of the questions from French to Persian. Najib's own -translator interpreted his answers into French. Stephen was setting in a separate room and translated the questions into Najib's hear threw a microphone.
Najib told many lies, which infuriated Stephen. Unable to control himself, Stephen told Najib just how a big liar he was! He called him "murderer'' and "hated dictator."
These words, audible only to Najib. turned the dictator's face red, and he lost the thread of his words. The journalist interviewing him, also a friend of Afghanistan, was surprised by irrelevant sentences coming out of Najib's big mouth. At end of the interview. Stephen went to studio and showed himself to Najib. so that he should know who was celling him the truth.
1 lie people who had arranged the interview were not happy with Stephen's behavior, but he was happy for what he had done to a killer of his own people. The story leaked out among Afghans and the French com munity interested in Afghanistan. Most of them admired Stephen lor his excellent work, and considered it a sign of • friendship with Afghanistan.
Alter die victory of the Mujahideen, Stephen paid a visit to Kabul, and he seemed extremely happy. His sudden death saddened all those know him and were aware of his services in defense of Jehad and the people of Afghanistan.
r
Kabul airpor
Afghanistan will have to spt one million dollars to repair Kal airport, damaged by Hikmatyi blistering rocket attacks last Augi and hopes foreign donors will p vide the money. Civil Aviati Minister Dr. Abdur Rahman t< Reuters news agency.
Afghanistan hopes to start ref lar passenger flights to Londt Paris and Frankfurt, and has been contact with French and British of cials. the minister said in a rect interview.
Afghanistan's Ariana Airline; ready flies a weekly cargo flight Frankfurt, and hopes to take passe gerssoon.
However. Kabul needs one m lion dollars to repairs its airpe where the control tower was bum by a rocket attack in August, and t charred skeletons of at least thr planes were scattered on the (arms he said.
Kabul is short of funds ai would need foreign aid to fund i repairs, the Aviation Minister said.
First snow
, The first snow fell on Kabul ■ November 21, weeks earlier th usual.
The early snow resulted in so. ing prices of food and fuel. Ro blocks by Hezb Islami had alrca raised the prices of essent commodities.
The people in Kabul are wc tied about the food and fuel situati in the capital during the coming wi ter. Despite assurances by the gc eminent, enough supplies of fo and fuel have not reached Kab due to Hezb roadblocks.
Pakistan opens nev consulate in Mazai
The government of Pakistan 1 1 decided to upgrade its two con i latcs in Afghanistan, besides op I ing a new consulate general Ma/ar-i-Sharif.
War-wounded project ends
The American defence department has ended its project for the treatment of war-wounded Afghans, whose treatment was not possible in Pakistan.
Under the Afghan-war-wounded transportation and rehabilitation program, the US defence department provided treatment to some 1,200 critically injured Afghan young, old, women and children from March 1986 until 1992.
Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Egypt, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Great Britain cooperated in implementation of the program.
Majority of critically injured Afghan people, mostly young, were airlifted to sixteen countries of the world in the planes of American air force from Pakistan for treatment purpose.
Fida Yunus, a senior diplon | has been appointed as consul gem , in Mazar-i-Sharif. He has served Charge d'affairs in the Pakistan < I bassy at Kabul from October of 1! to May of 1992.
i nc government oi

also upgraded its consulates Jalalabad and Kandahar to the h of consulate general