a rnu a q Mr, n	, September 1,1992, page Ql
ArOriAJMeWS VOi o, iNO 1/	
hhh	FAIR WEATHER LEADERS! The behavior of some of the leaders of Mujahideen parties and ministers of the Islamic government. was very irresponsible during Gulbuddin’s offensive on Kabul. Farid, the prime minister, left Kabul just before the fighting began to visit Pakistan and Iran. He defended his party’s attack on Kabul. Younus Khalis, the leader of Hezb Islami (Khalis group) left Kabul for Peshawar after announcing his resignation from the Leadership Council through the media, after levelling accusations against the president and minister of defense. During the war, however, he volunteered to act as a peacemaker between the two sides. Prof. Sayyaf, another member of the Leadership Council, has chosen Paghman as a base, and never came to Kabul to attend the Leadership Council. His deputy, Eng. Ahmad Shah, who is also the minister of the interior, remained in Peshawar during the fighting. Dr. Najibulah Mujaddidi resigned from his post as the health minister and gave an interview to BBC railing against the government. During the war, he apparently changed his mind and started to act as health minister from Peshawar. It is not clear how he was re-appointed to the post. The deputy health minister also remained in Peshawar for most pan of the fighting while the hospitals in Kabul were full of wounded people suffering from the lack of power and water and shortages of medicine. Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi, the Vice President of Afghanistan, who was in Peshawar, joined the peace mission after passing judgement blaming both the government and Hezb for the start of the war. ^ Sibghatullah Mujaddidi. has been in America since he unwillingly transferred power to Prof. Rabbani almost three months ago. While criticizing Hikmatyar for launching the attack on Kabul, he also demanded the removal of President Rabbani and Defense Minister Masood from office. The Minister of Water and Power and other several prominent members of various parties also went back into exile. .The people expected these men to remain in Kabul to help die ordinary people in the time of crisis. It is believed that these people went abroad in order to avoid getting involved in fighting between Hezb and the Islamic government.'
' " \ Editorial	
Stop helping Gulbuddin! All Islamic countries are duty- and honor-bound to maintain their support for the legitimate Islamic government in Afghanistan, and to take no part in efforts to destabilize it. This applies especially to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, which supported Jehad throughout the Soviet occupation here. Gulbuddin Hikmatyar on August 10 launched a bid to seize absolute power in Kabul by force. The effort ended almost three weeks later in bloody and destructive failure. During the "offensive" - really a terrorist campaign, in which his men killed and wounded thousands of. civilians in rocket attacks targeting markets and residential neighborhoods - Hikmatyar received weapons from abroad. Meanwhile, he waged his political and propaganda war against the Islamic government from secure bases in Peshawar and Islamabad. The government and people of Afghanistan welcomed Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif s statement that he would riot allow elements trying to undermine the legitimate Afghan government to use Pakistani territory. But while Sharifs good intentions and sincerity are beyond doubt, there is plenty of evidences that his Afghan policy is also being undermined. Pakistan should also ban political, economic and propaganda activities by enemies of Afghnistan’s Islamic government. The Pakistan government's announcement that it had stopped 14 trucks carrying weapons to Hikmatyar, along with , demands by the people of Bajawar for the removal of Hikmatyar's weapon depots from their agency, proves that Hezb ‘has been receiving aim's and ammunition from across the border. Despite Pakistan's claim that it has imposed tighter border controls, eyewitnesses report that convoys of Pakistani trucks brought supplies to Hikmatyar's base at Char Asyab, "south of Kabul, after the ceasefire look effect x . Hezb has a news agency in Islamabad, and publishes its daily Shahadat from Peshawar. The party receives funds from supporters in the Middle. East and elsewhere via Pakistani banks. War is an expensive business; Hikmatyar could not have launched his attack without funds and supplies from outside. Scores of Arab and Pakistani volunteers fought in the ranks of Hikmatyar's forces. Some have been captured or killed. These volunteers enter Afghanistan illegally through Pakistan. Qazi Hussain Ahmad, the Amir of the Jamaat Islami of Pakistan, actively . supports Hikmatyar's sedition, sending fighters and-experts to keep Hezb’s terror machine running. Hikmatyar has many supporters Tn the Pakistan Army. Through their good offices he received the single biggest share of foreign funds and equipment supplied to the Mujahideen during the Soviet occupation., These elements in Pakistan still support Hikmatyar irehis war to grab power. Their investment in Hezb Islami, however, proved a waste of time and money. Hezb fought little against the Soviets. They concentrated instead on attacking other Mujahideen, because Hikmatyar was and remains unwilling to join Afghanistan's other forces in a political process. He wants rule Afghanistan single-handedly - an impossible task. , In spite of the arms stockpiles and millions of dollars he received during the 1980s, power has eluded him. Terrorism against the government arid especially the people of Afghanistan won't work, as the events of August proved. Pakistan won the admiration of Afghans and the rest of the world for supporting Jehad and giving shelter to millions of Afghan refugees, and her government and people have much to be proud of. They should try hard not to spoil their achievements by supporting Hezb Islami terrorism, thus further-whetting Hekmatyar's hunger for power and thirst for blood.	
	