     AFGHAN HE1S_______YOL. II NO. 19          1/10/1986 PAGE 6
    Three junior commanders and eight Mujahideen were martyred and five others injured.
    The enemy massacred 42 old men women and children in Naqi Abad vallige of Enjeel district
    Fighting is still continueing,
    17/9/1986. According to a letter sent by Commander Esmaeel from Herat the mujahideen have been able to destroy 11 new built security posts around the city and fighting for the remaining 3 is continuing. The later says that the mujahideen of Herat city were reinforced by mujahideen from Badghis province and other districts of Herat. The enemy is pounding the area with * long range artillary and areal bombardments. No detail is given about the casualties of the two sides.
                                       REPORT FROM PA6HMAN
    3/9/1986, A report sent by Mullah Ezzat, Jami’at commander in Paghman says that a Soviet convoy which was on its way to Paghman (a district 20 Km. West of Kabul) was attacked by Mujahideen from Jamlat. in half an hour of fighting 14 trucks were set on fire and thirty enemy soldiers were killed. Some units from the Puppet Army tried to help the mentioned convoy but after losing one truck they retreated.
    At 5 pm. on the same day the enemy airforce attacked the residential areas close to the ambush site (lOKm. from Kabul). This continued for one hour. Many houses were destroyed.
    At 6 pm. more troops and tanks were brought into the areaMujahideen resisted the new force too, Despite heavy fire the enemy could not pass the area. After dark they continued pounding the area with artillary and heavy
    rockets,
    The next day the enemy reached Paghman under fire cover which was provided by six jets.Since the residents of the area had already been evacuated, all the bombardments could not cause any casualties.
    After reaching Paghaman the Soviets started their usual operation of searching the villages, burning the houses and killing the cattle.
    20 Mujahideen were martyred when their hideout was found by the Soviet soldiers with the help of some local collaborator. These Mujahideen were killed by explosive. 6 Mujahideen were injured in the same incident. None of them are in a critical condition.
    Soviet criminals destroyed underground water channels (Kariz) and the springs which the local people use for drinking and irregation.