AFGHANews Vol 8, No 3, February 1, 1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Mawlawi Sayyed Akber
Mawlawi Sayyed Akber is the Chief Justice and a . member of the Executive Committee of the Supervisory Council . He is also in charge of the religious schools (madra-sas) of the council.
When the communist coup of 1978 took place, Mawlawi Sayyed Akber left teaching in a ma-drasa in Taliqan and returned to his hometown,
Worsaj. He continued teaching in the mosque of his village until the Mujahideen liberated Worsaj at the end of 1979.
The
Mujahideen appointed him as the judge of the local administration. He also served as the administrator of Worsaj for a few months.
When Masood began to organize Worsaj, Mawlawi Sayyed Akber supported him. Since then, he has been involved in strengthening of the council. He acts as a religious advisor to Commander Masood.
Sayyed Akber began his regular studies at the age of 15. He became a student of Mawlawi Ashraf, a prominent scholar, in Tarisht, a side-valley of Worsaj. Later, he moved to Taliqan where he continued his studies. He also worked as a manual laborer in his spare time to support himself financially.
Sayyed Akber studied in a madra-sa in Farza, Mir Bachakoot District, where he came in contact with students of Abu-Hanifa school (a religious
Dead mawlawi reaches Kabul
Mullah Gulajan, a pro- regime religious figure who was pardoned by the Mujahideen after being captured in March of 1991, has escaped to Kabul.
He used to give anti-Mujahideen speeches through Khost radio when it was controlled by the regime. When the Khost fell, Mullah was forgiven and was allowed tolive a peaceful life.
The Kabul regime radio accused the Mujahideen of killing Mullah and organized memorial services in Kabul with the participation of ranking military and civilian officers. He was given thetitleofmanyi\
The Kabul regime has not celebrated the return of Mullah to Kabul because of the extensive propaganda it made for his rumored death.
school run by government) and the Faculty of Islamic Law. The politically ' charged atmosphere of Kabul had an effect on him and he became an activist of the Islamic Movement He completed his studies in Worsaj in 1971.
In Taliqan, his mosque served as a meeting point for the Mujahideen to exchange information and to make contact with each other.
Mawlawi Sayyed Akber is a scholar of high academic	stan-
dards. He has inherited the knowledge	of
traditional Ulamas and has been affected by ideas of the Islamic revivalists. He has studied books written by modem Islamic scholars from Iran, Pakistan and Middle East He could be described as an enlightened traditional scholar. This quality makes him a useful supporter of Masood who is trying to develop the areas he controls.
Sayyed Akber speaks in Persian and he can communicate in Arabic. He is a fairly good writer and is able to writes poetry. His favorite poet is Alania Iqbal.
He combats the social evils through peaceful means and does his daily job through consultation with his colleagues.
He knows the art of dealing with people very well but lacks experience in office works. He lives a simple life and could not be distinguishable from ordinary people by his clothes and manners.
He was bom 44 years ago in Meyan Shahr village of Worsaj. His father, Sayyed Akber, had died few months before he was bom. His mother give him the name of his father. His father was an old man and left behind a small house and no farmland. Sayyed Akber was raised by his step father. At the age of seven, he started to work with a carpenter in the village to support his mother. At the same time, he attended the school of the village.
It was Mawlawi Ashraf who discovered his natural gift for learning and encouraged him to devote his life to learning. He is married and has five children.
.Kirghiziaand;A^baiiarL-:. .:;V■■;7Z MuseumAand
kilted wtien their ’car v^;-lniShed:ll^::
Sjg 5i;!g	/y'\	'■	'•_' —'• . .

The Kabul regime secret police has siai^d.buming its
criminal ftps' special Incendiary- mate^ xtq^bttra.:
MMiiBpoinu KHAD was
lit •
;	-	has.	joined
y/fc a
based in Kahmard District, Bamyan
PHNMMi
|||np£||£|
jp pay war