AFGHANews Vol 8, No 6, March 15,1992, page ©
The 14th anniversary of Herat uprising honored
The 14th anniversary of the uprising of the people of Herat against the communist rule was commemorated in Peshawar on March 14.
Jami'at organized a great meeting in its headquarter, outside Peshawar city, to honor the memory of more than 20,000 people fell martyrs in the uprising against communist regime on March 14,1978.
The army garrison in Herat joined the people to oppose the rule of communists. The communist regime sent troops from Kandahar and heavily bombed the city using jets. The uprising ended in a blood bath.
Commander Ismail Khan and his
deputy Allauddin Khan are from the army officers stationed in Herat who chose to join the people instead fighting against them.
Prof. Rabbani paid rich tributes to the people of Herat for their heroic resistance against the Soviet invaders and the puppet regime. The uprising was a symbol of unity of Afghans in which the people belonging to different walks of life and ethnic groups fought under the banner of Islam, he said.
Several thousand Mujahideen, commanders and refugees, belong to different Mujahideen parties, attended the meeting.
Agha Khan plans to help Ismailis in Central Asia
Karim Agha Khan, the spiritual leader of Ismailis, wants to build a secretariat in Chitral, Pakistan, to revive contact with his followers in Central Asia, The News reported.
followers of Ismailia sect live in border areas of Pakistan, Afghanistan and Tajikistan. Since the establishment of the Soviet rule in Tajikistan, contact of the Ismailis of Tajikistan with outside world was cut
Agha Khan has financed rural development projects in Chitral and
KHAD kidnaps rich traders
The Kabul regime security forces, especially its secret police, have recently indulged in kidnapping of merchants for ransom and looting of shops in the capital, MEDIA reported.
Haji Cham an, a wealthy merchant from Panjshir, was kidnapped by armed groups in Kabul. He was released after his relative paid $150,000 to the kidnappers.
Haji Wali, another merchant, have been kidnapped by regime agents who demand sums in return for his release.
Breaking of shops after nightly curfew hours has become a common practice. Hamid Store and Afghan Market have been looted recently.
AFP reported that Qari Aman Nawii’s store, close to Najib's palace was looted. The stolen goods were carried away by military trucks after curfew was clumped to the city.
Northern Pakistan where Ismailia community live. He had shown interest in helping the border areas in Badakhshan where Ismailis live.
Ismailis in Afghanistan are led by Sayyed Monsoor Nadiri,. Known as Sayyed of Kay an, a regime senator from Baghlan. He played the role of a double agent during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. His son, Sayyed Jaafer Nadiri, is the leader of Ismaili militias who provide security for part of the Salang road between North Salang and Hayratan on the border with Uzbekistan.
Relations between Najib and Ismaili militias deteriorated when they supported mutiny by General Moomen, the commander of Hayratan garrison. Najib has failed to find a solution to this problem which can develop into a major crises causing the fall of the regime.
Rabbani accuses Kabul regime of rocket attacks
A rocket exploded in a' crowded area of the city of Kabul on February 20 killing 30 people and injuring more than 70, news agencies reported.
The rocket hit a two-story building in Saray-i-Shazada, a place for exchange of money.
The official of the foreign ministry of the Kabul regime blamed the Mujahideen for the incident They said the rocket was of Sakar type and was fired form northeast direction.
Prof. Rabbani and Gulbuddin Hikmatyar have denied involvement of their Mujahideen in the incident Prof. Rabbani blamed the Kabul regime for the incident, He said it was the work of regime to defame the Mujahideen. He said the regime uses the rockets captured or bought from some Mujahideen in these attacks to implicate the resistance.
BBC reporter said that the rocket attack could be a retaliatory action to the regime bombardments on civilian targets north of Kabul.
On February 22, a rocket landed near the Kabul airport killing one person and injuring four. On February 26 a rocket hit an area, 500 meters close to the ministry of Education, killing three people and injuring four.
Informed sources said that the Kabul regime does not reveal the military casualties of the rockets attacks. It only reveals the casulaties of civilians to defame the Mujahideen.
As the Spring approaches, fighting between the Mujahideen and Kabul re gime’s forces is increases.
Escalation of war takes place when the UN is busy to organize an assembly of Afghan notables to propose an interim government to which the power of the regime is transferred.