Vol 8, No 21 & 22	November	15,1992
Rabbani given mandate to hold Hal-o-Aqd Shura
aMa	■	a	a	—1",	■	a	a	a	f	\	Y	('l	/I	n	ft	O	A	f,	a	*	■	/	'I	fi I /> A lAMA,	AA	111	I	O	AA	1	■	At	A	ft	I
The Leadership Council extended Prof. Rabbani's office term for 45 days on October 31 to enable him to convene the Hal-o-Aqd Council (HAC).
The four-month office term of Prof. Rabbani terminated on October 28 and the Leadership Concil's session to appoint a new head of state was delayed for two days due to differences cn the venue of the session.
All leaders o- their authorized representatives, except Hezb Islami (Khalis group), attended the session, which was held in the Presidential Palace. Khalis’ group had said it would abide by the decision of the majority.
The Peshawar Accords envisaged convening the HAC during the four-month office term of President Rabbani. Due to Hezb's attack on Kabul and absence of most of the leaders, however, it could not be convened on time.
As the office term of Prof. Rabbani was approaching the end, some political circles spread rumors that he was not ready to transfer power. Jamj'at's leadership had announced that he would abide by the Peshawar Accords. Talking to journalists. Prof. Rabbani said that he was ready to transfer power to the new leadership appointing by HAC. "I will not make a coup," he said.
A few days before the termination
r
of President RabbanTs office term, Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi, Prof. Sayyaf and Mawlawi Khalis held a meeting in Pul-i-Charkhi, east of Kabul, and -discussed a new strategy. According to a reliable source, they agreed on appointment of someone else in place of Prof. Rabbani. Mohammadi was the main candidate for the job. Several meetings had been held in Ningarhar and Pakistan for the purpose of appointment of Mohammadi as the successor of Prof. Rabbani. According to a reliable source, a Pakistani agency had asked General Dostum during his secret trip to Pakistan to support Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi in his bid for the leadership.
* But this agreement could not last long. Hikmatyar had proposed to the meeting that if units of Division 53 were not withdrawn from Kabul within a few days, the four parties should appoint a new head of state who would announce dissolving the present military formation and ask the Mujahideen
cally. Realising the need for keeping the stability in the capital, they extended the office term of Prof. Rabbani for 45 days.
In a radio and TV statement, Prof. Rabbani thanked the Leaderhip Council for extention of his office term. He said that the job was not a privilege but a big responsibility. He added that he would try his best to convene the HAC w 'irir. 45 days, in addition to intensify ing efforts to provide the essential commodities and security for the people.
Despite participation of its representative in the meeting of the Leadership Council, Hezb called the re appointment of Prof. Rabbani a coup and started to block the Kabul-Jalalabad road.
After the extension of Prof. Rabbani's term, work to convene HAC was accelerated.
The rules for convening of the HAC had been approved earlier by the Leadership Council. According to the formula election of representatives would be based on 1990 UN census.
to attack and liberate Kabul. In an inter- Each district and sub-district select
view with Shahadat, a paper published by his party, Hikmatyar complained that the three leaders broke promises that they made in this Pul-i-Charkhi meeting.
As the office term of Prof. Rabban approached the end, lhe Mujahideen leaders began to think mere pragmati
UN new envoy visits Kabul
The UN Searcury-Generals Special Envoy for Afghanistan Sitouris Mousouris visited Kabul on October 21 for the fusuime since his appointment to his job some months ago.
During his one-day tour, he met with President Rabbani, some ministers and addressed' a press conference in the Kabul airport
Resumption of UN humanitarian activities and return of its foreign staff were the main topics of the discussions with the officials in Kabul.
UN evacuated its non-Afghan staff and suspended its activities during the rocket attack by Hezb of Hikmatyar.
As a symbolic humanitarian gesture, the UN envoy brought with him window glasses for one hospital in Kabul.
He emphasized the need for security in Afghanistan to make the UN able to resume its humanitarian activities.
Mousounsjeplaccd Sevan after the failure of his peace plan and giving asylum to Najib in the UN office in Kabul. «-
their two representatives. If its population exceeds 30,000, for each 18,000 one additional representative will be chosen. The people of Kabul will send 50 representatives.
The Leadership Council will appoint 15 percent of the members and five percent will be appointed by the head erf the Leadership Council. This will enable the participation of refu gees, experts and prominent Afghans living in exile.
The government officially asked the UN and OIC to send their represen tatives to Kabul to supervise the proceedings of tlie HAC which is planned for December 15.
The preparatory commission of the HAC has send its delegates to 14 prov incs. Each delegation is comprised of four persons: three observers and one judge. Two representatives of Hezb are also included in this commission.