AFGHANews Vol 8, No 3, February 1,1992, page ©
Editorial
No alternative to Islamic rule
The hostile attitude of the leaders of Central Asian republics towards the Mujahideen will not prevent formation of an Islamic government in Kabul.
Sardar Asif Ali, the State Minister for Economic Affairs of Pakistan, who has returned from a tour of the area has said that leaders of the republics are afraid of formation of a 'fundamentalist' and 'extremely religious' government in Kabul. One of them, the President of Tajikistan, has warned of ethnic clashes and break up of Afghanistan if an Islamic government was formed in Kabul.
The hostile attitude of the leaders of Central Asian republics towards the Mujahideen and their fear of an Islamic government in Kabul is understandable. They led the communist parties of their republics before the break up of USSR. They are close to Najib and like to see him in power.
The Mujahideen have fought a decade-long war against the Soviets and their puppets in Kabul to establish an Islamic government in Afghanistan. Formation of such a government is the desire of all sections of the Afghan society. This claim that formation of an Islamic government in Kabul leads to break up of the country on ethnic lines is baseless. On the contrary, a true Islamic government in Kabul insures the unity of the country.
Islam was a uniting force during the years of Jehad against the Soviets and only an Islamic government keeps the country united. Imported leaders and forms of governments are the root cause of the current crises in Afghanistan. The Mujahideen will not abandon their ultimate goal of establishing an Islamic government to please the outsiders.
The terms fundamentalist', ’extremely religious' and 'reactionary government’ do not apply to the Islamic government we want to establish. It will be a pure Islamic government guided by the Holy Quran and the teachings of the Holy Prophet (peace be upon him). Such a government poses no threat to anyone and is not a source of instability.
The leaders of Central Asian republics should abandon their hostile attitude towards the Mujahideen. If they want to live in peace with Afghans, they should not support Najib. Najib and its party have to go because they are the products of the Soviet invasion.
Algerians victory stolen
The Islamic Salvation Front (FIS) was about to win a decisive victory in the elections in Algeria but the army intervened and cancelled the second round of elections. Arrest of supporter of FIS has started.
FIS wanted to introduce Sharia in Algeria. The people of this country had fought a long war under the banner of Islam to earn their independence from colonialists.
The victory of FIS was stolen by the Algerian army and the democratic system was crushed under the boots of its soldiers.
This happened without a strong reaction from the outside world. The Western countries who claim to be the supporters of democracy failed to condemn the action of the army in Algeria. Similar actions in other parts of the world would have provoked strong condemnation and even threat of economic blockades. The leaders of the Islamic countries adopted an indifferent attitude. The media in the Islamic countries repeated the derogatory labels given to the Muslims in Algeria by the Western press,
Afghan Jehad suffers from a similar attitude. When the Mujahideen fought the Soviets and there was no sign of victory, the Western world called them freedom fighters and extended all sorts of support to them. But, when the sings of Mujahideen’s victory became clear, they backed off. Now they want to see a government in Kabul in which the Mujahideen are not in a dominating position.
Jami'at sympathize with its Muslim brothers in Algeria and condemn the decision of Algerian leaders to annul the result of the elections won by HS.
Mujahideen release 1,000 regime prisoners of war
As many as 1,000 prisoners of war, captured during the fall of Khost, were released by Mawlawi Jalalaluddin Haqqani on January 22.
Mawlawi Haqqani told a group of newsmen at Zhawara in Paktia province that during the fall of Khos 1,700 soldiers were captured by the his group. He had released scores of them on different occasions.
He said that only 190 officers, including five generals, remained in his captivity. A decision would be taken about them in the near future.
Mawlawi Haqqani said that during the 10 months of captivity, the regime personnel were taught the tenets of Islam and they are now practicing Muslims.
The released soldiers pledged not to rejoin the regime army.
Haqqani urged the soldiers who were set free to work for Islam and advocate its cause. He said that by releasing the POWs, he wanted to show to the world that the Mujahideen do not avenge those who lay down arms.
A team of Amnesty international and Dr. Filex Ermacora, the UN special envoy on human rights situation in Afghanistan, had visited the prisoners of war kept by Commander Haqqani. They also visited the war museum of Haqqani in his base in Jawara where different types of weapons used against the Mujahideen are displayed.
The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) has been given permission by the Kabul regime to visit prisoners held by the Afghan state security ministry (WAD), Red Cross officials said.
The head of the ICRC delegation in Kabul, Didier Helg, said the ICRC had begun visiting state security prisoners from January 13.
"It is an important achievement for the ICRC. But . . . our hope is that there will be continuity of this procedure," Helg said.
The ICRC first started its work in the Afghan capital in 1982, but had to leave after a brief stay. It returned in 1987.
Since then, it has been visiting prisoners held by the Afghan ministries of justice and internal affairs, but was not allowed to meet detainees of the state security ministry.
The Kabul move is seen as an attempt to improve its international image.