AFGHANews Vol 8, No 4, February 15,1992, page @
UN peace formula needs modification
The UN efforts to find a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan enjoys the support of most of the Mujahideen parties. The UN can and Should play a role in bringing a just solution to the conflict in Afghanistan.
The UN peace efforts entered a new phase when Secretary-General Boutros Ghali announced on January 27 that he was ready to host a gathering of Afghans outside the region to discuss the mechanism of a transitional administration.
This announcement is based on the five-point UN plan revealed by the former UN secretary-general in May 1991. The plan had ambiguity regarding intra-Afghan dialogue and the Mujahideen had asked the UN chief to clarify it.
The Mujahideen were united in rejecting direct or indirect talks with the Kabul regime and had opposed observation of ceasefire as long as the Kabul regime was in power.
The proposed gathering of Afghans is an arrangement for holding intra-Afghan dialogue. To make it acceptable to the Mujahideen, the UN wants to keep both Najib and the Mujahideen leaders out of it. In other words, Najib arid the Mujahideen leaders are sending their representatives to the talks.
This formula is ambiguous and complicated. Small and big groups have been asked to present a list of the people whom they want to see in the gathering. It is not clear in what proportion each side will be represented in the proposed gathering; what the procedure for reaching decisions is and how these decisions are implemented.
It seems that the UN has paid more attention to external factors of the conflict than its internal factors. It has been assumed that support of the outside countries to the peace plan will leave the Mujahideen with no choice but to accept it Future developments will show that this assumption is highly exaggerated.
We are a witness to some activities aimed at undermining the importance of the Mujahideen parties. Holding talks with minor groups and paying too much attention to individuals living in exile might give the impression that most of the parties support the UN plan in its current form, but when it comes to the implementation of the decisions what actually matters is the strength of the groups inside the country. Therefore, the architects of the UN plan must not be misled by the number of groups, many of which are made for the peace talks.
Lip service to the UN plan by the Kabul regime is aimed at driving a wedge between the Mujahideen and neighboring countries friendly to the Mujahideen and dividing the Mujahideen .on "fundamentalist" and "moderate" lines. The Mujahideen and brotherly countries of Pakistan and Iran should watch carefully so that the enemy designs do not succeed.
. While Jami'at supports the UN peace efforts, it has asked the UN envoy to clarify the ambiguous points of the plan before participating in the process. Jami'at strongly feels the need for participation of all Mujahideen groups in the peace process and believes that leaving out the effective Mujahideen parties will not bring peace and stability in Afghanistan.
We have been witness to a malicious campaign against the Mujahideen leaders accusing them to be indifferent to the suffering of Afghans. Jehad is also is being labeled as "war for gaining personal power". Jami'at rejects these unfair and unjust accusations. No foreign country or officer of the UN can claim to be more concerned about the future of Afghanistan and sufferings its people than the Mujahideen and their leaders. The war to depose Najib is Jehad. lie was brought to power by Soviet troops and is responsible for killing and torturing of thousands of Afghans as the head of KHAD. Aimed struggle against Najib is a continuation of liberation war against Soviets.
Russian mines continue to kill Afghans
Mines and unexploded shells and bombs have killed 200,000 people during the 13 years of war in Afghanistan, a United Nations report says.
The report issued in Islamabad on January 30 by the UN Office Coordinating Humanitarian and Economic Aid to Afghanistan (UNOCA) said millions of mines remained a "horrifying hazard" to Afghans.
The UN estimates more than a million people were killed and two million were disabled in the Afghan conflict
The UNOCA report quoted a Swedish agricultural survey as saying mines had killed 500,000 farm animals and destroyed 2,000 vehicles in Afghanistan.
The United Nations has organized mine clearance in Afghanistan since 1989 to facilitate the return of about rive million war refugees living in neighboring Pakistan and Iran.
UNOCA said surveys in the three eastern provinces of Kunar, Logar and Paktia suggested that 20 percent of disabled people were victims of mines or unexploded shells.
The UN Secretary General’s Personal Representative in Afghanistan and Pakistan has appealed to all potential donor countries to make generous contributions to mine clearance in Afghanistan.
Sevan said defusing millions of mines scattered over the country is a formidable task but Afghans themselves have the ability to do it It is, however, a tragedy that the resources to fund this operation are limited, he added. _____________________
Afghan arts show
21st March-12th April 1992
In March 1992 World Circuit Arts will be presenting an Afghan Arts Festival, the first of its kind, in association with the Afghan associations in London, which aims to demonstrate how the arts of a refugee people can survive and nourish the community; to introduce Afghan arts and culture to Londoners as a whole; to provide educational opportunities for school children and to celebrate the Afghan New Year in the traditional manner.
Highlights will include a conceit by Aziz Herawi; three exhibitions (photography, embroidery and artefacts); public workshops on design, cookery, music and embroidery.