V
[ IN THE NAME OP ALM10HTT ALLAH ]
AFGHANnews
 A EORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OE JAM I'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
     POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN. /
        VOL. Ill, NO. 22, 13/11/1907. /*
                                                [cu
                                 FALL OF KERAN A MAJOR ACHIEVEMENT
The good news of the fall of Keran Garrison and elimination of enemy presence in # Hunjan valley was a major achievement for the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen liberated a strategic area from the presence of the enemy by a well-planned, well-prepared and surprise attack. Groups from four provinces took part in the operation. Most of the enemy troops numbering more than 566 men were captured ' alive and all their weapons and ammunition fell in the hand of the Resistance. More than that, very important documents have been captured from the enemy which reveals its informers, agents and threw light on the enemy plans. Mujahideen suffered onty little casualties.
It should be mentioned that such a victory is not an isolated incident. In one year this is the fourth garrison which fell in a similar manner. Mujahideen captured Ferkhar, NehrTn and Kalafgan Garrisons In similar attacks. The enemy was not able to re-establish them. The fifth Garrison In Pushghoor evacuated not to face a similar fate.
                                                       «c-v
Keran Garrison and the posts in Munjan area located in a strategically important area on the shortest road from the North to Pakistan.
The incident shows that the good work started by SCN (Supervisory Council of the North) is proving useful. Cooperation betwnen Mujahideen of different provinces is a reality. It also shows that the ability of the Mujahideen in planning, preparation and command of attacks involving hundreds of people has increased. Selection of the target (weak point of the enemy), good reconnaissance mobility and surprise are important factors in these attacks.
                   It is admirable to see that Mujahideen can hide their Intentions from the enemy.
In all four cases, movement of large groups of Mujahideen and great amount of weapons and ammunition have been involved.
By Clever manoeuvre the enemy intelligence has been fooled. Decipline before the attack and after the victory is maintained. Prisoners ore delivered to the judicial authorities and the spoils of war are collected and delivered to the responsible people.
As a result of these attacks, the morale of the Mujahideen and the civilian population has raised and those of the enemy has lowered. Capturing of a great amount of ammunition mokes the Mujahideen more self-sufficient. The new development in the North has posed a serious threat to the Soviets and their puppets. Now they are facing the serious question of what happens to tens of such garrisons in the countryside in the North. What happens if Mujahideen in other areas of Afghanistan adopt the same tactics?
As far as Afghanistan Resistance is concerned it must draw serious lessons from the good developments in the North. Mujahideen should change their tactics , pay attention to training programs and bring some sort of practical cooperation among different groups at least on a regional basis. This should be an answer to the military stalemate and a practical rejection of the Soviet political moneovers.
o f