AFGHAN NEWS
No. 20
4-12-1985
P- 65
                        yH^^^|Yp2^oF_PEACE
     During the Geneva summit talks the wives of the two leaders also met together and exchanged views.
     The wife of the Soviet leader in a meeting which took place in the. building of the International Red Cross talked about peace and the, need to preserve it.
     To other people who are living in peace and not facing the Soviet war machinary, these speeches about peace seems encouraging. They think that the Soviets have changed their way of thinking about other countries and people. This is why we are calling the attent-tion of the world to see the truth about the situation in Afghanistan, to compare the Soviet's words with their actions. There are about. 200,000 Soviet soldiers in Afghanistan and along border between the two countries.
     The war has continued for six long years. Four million people have become refugees , half a million people have been killed , wounded or are missing. The whole country has become a free fire zone for the Soviet soldiers and their aeroplanes. A nation is dying-and a culture is being ruined. All this is done at the orders of the Soviet leaders and carried out by their soldiers. Soviet leaders talk in such a way that one may think they are not: responsible for all that is being done to people of Afghanistan, their tanks are firing peace shells and their Jets and Helicopters are messengers of peace.
     Going to a department store, buying jewelry , talking to newsmen and wearing western cosmetics does not have any relation with peace. While madam Gorbachev was singing peace songs and some simple-minded people were clapping hands, their Jets were, destroying our villages, killing our women, children and old people.
     While she was talking about the prosperity and well-being of mankind their soldiers were busy in military operations against innocent Afghans,
     We know the double standards which the Soviet leaders and other Communists used and we expect the rest of the world should n*t to trust those whose actions do not follow their words.
     As long as the Soviets are occupying Afghanistan and killing Afghans, all the fine speeches of the Soviet leaders about: peace and pro-gams-ssceot® lies and an attempt, to deceive the world. We hope the world will not be deceived by Soviets words.