t------	~	AFGHANews	Vol5,	No 7, April 1,1989, page ©
Glimpses into the historical background of	Part	(1)
The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
Memoirs of Dr.Tawana
Preface: Praise be to Allah who enabled me to serve as a brick in die magnificent palace of the Islamic Movement in Afghanistan and be a seed among many seeds which contributed to the growth of die blessed tree whose roots are firm in the ground and whose branches are spreading vast and lofty. The Islamic Movement began in Afghanistan in aider to struggle against all forms of corruption and falsehood in general and against the false ideology of communism in particular. Today the world is a witness to die great sacrifices of the children of the Islamic Movement who have offered their property, their loved ones and even their ives in the way of Allah antLin their fight against communism.
I hope the reader finds these memoirs informative. 1 also hope he corrects the misinformation he may have about die historical background of the Islamic Movement in the light of these memoirs.
It may be asked why I have kept silent so for, and why I am writing the memoirs now: The reason for silence was die fast development of the situation before and after die Russian invasion as well as my being busy with Jehad tasks. Nor did I feel any need to write the history so soon. Recently, however, I realized that facts are being distorted. Unfortunately sane people who claim to be part of the Movement and to have fought in the way of God do not want the truth to be known. Worst than that they want to distort die facts for their political gains. Thus, I felt obliged to break my silence and tell the truth.
What you Tead in this series of articles are the dungs I have eye witnessed or have perfomed personally. I also relate what I have heard from people in whom I have complete trust and whom 1 consider honest and just Nonetheless, I am aware of (he Messenger of God's saying that"Saffices for a person to be (considered) a her if he relates whatever he hears." Therefore, I will also tty to look into evidence that supports die reports. Often I would limit myself to just relating the facts. Sometimes, however, 1 would present my personal views as well.
With all humility I pray to Almighty God to bless my humble work with sincerity and honesty. I also pray to Him to safeguard those who are in charge of our affairs from commit-
ting historic mistakes at these sensitive moments of the history of our Islamic Umma (community).
Islamic Movement During Infancy:
I attended "Darul Uloom Shari" Madrasa (religious school) for secondary education and graduated in 1956. The Madrasa was renamed as "Imam Abu Hanifa" latex on. The curricula of the Madrasa included three types of courses:
(1)	courses in religion such as basics of belief, interpretation of the Holy Quran, Hadith (Traditions of the Prophet), Fkjah (jurisprudence) and methodology;
(2)	courses in linguistics of Arabic language; and (3) courses in social and natural sciences such as history, geography, physics, chemistry and so on. Students often complained about the difficulty of the courses and of too much work.
When the Madrasa had been first established, the administration and some Egyptian teachers used to encourage students' writing and oratory talents by holding monthly seminars and contests. During my term of studies, however, the program had been terminated.
In 1957,1 entered the Faculty of Shariat (Islamic Law) which had been recently established within the framework of Kabul University. The course load was heavy there as well. In addition to the usual courses offered in other Muslim countries' faculties of Islamic Law and Theology, we used to study traditional books on various subjects. Therefore, students faced a lot of difficulty in understanding both traditional books and learning modem lessons. Nonetheless, Afghan and Egyptian teachers were content with the students' performance.
At the beginning of that year (1957), I and some of my friends realized the need for strengthening our writing and oratory capabilities. Thus, we designed a program to work in those fields. We began reading extra-curricular books in Dari and Arabic. We also started writing articles or translating some texts from Arabic to Dari. We shared our works with each others by giving speeches in our small circle. For a while, wewere happy with our work and did not perceive any problems. We hoped that in the near foture we would be ready to serve our community and the. Islamic Umma. Though we did not try to hide our activities from others.
our small circle which did not include more than a dozen members.
Appearance Of The First signs Of The Danger:
After a few.months, we sensed the appearance of a great danger. It was the danger of apostasy from Islam among the University students. We felt the danger before the religious scholars because those who were in charge of corrupting the ideas and beliefs of the students would not expose themselves to the religious leaders. They considered the religious scholars as fanantics on whom their poison would not work. Moreover, they could not understand each others’ language. The religious scholars who had studied Islamic teachings in accordance with the old Al-Azhar University's program were content to narrate what they had read in the Kalam, logic, philosophy, and Fiqah books. Whereas the other side knew notiiing about those subjects but talk about dialectic materialism, Darwinism, evolution and the lack of necessity for the existence of the Creator.
We students, however, knew the language of the corrupters and resembled them in age and appearance. Moreover, we lived together with them at the University campus, and were their prime target because they wanted to influence students of the Faculty of Shariat first and foremost
With the limited knowledge we had about the conditions of our country and because of the Islamic responsibility that we felt we made a firm decision to rise up against the threat to our homeland and to our Islamic Umma. We designed a three point program of action;
(1)	Collecting all the points raised by the enemies against .Islam and responding to them in order to counter them. Since we realized we did not have sufficient knowledge of Islam, we placed increasing our religious knowledge as the first priority. We had a lot of difficulty finding good books. At the first stage, we used die works of some Egyptian scholars such as Farid Wajdi. We also found Tantawi's interpretation of die Holy Quran very useful.
(2)	Writing and translating articles and publishing them in magazines and journals in order to give a true picture
Turn to page (7)