AFGHANews Vol7, No 18, September 15,1991, page 0
a neighbor.”
(e) The British government might have pressured him to refuse Soviet help.
Whatever the reason. King Amanullah, despite having friendly ties with the Russians, did not want to be crowned shamefully by than. He did not want to be called the Soviet puppet by future generations of Afghans . Therefore, he preferred to live as a refugee in Italy and not as a puppet king in Kabul. He sent a message to Ghulam Nabi that he did not want Soviet intervention in Afghanistan. Ghulam Nabi, who was waiting for such an instruction from his boss, returned to Russia — along with the Red Army.
Now that the first invasion of Afghanistan has become a part of the past, the names of our heroes such as Dah Mullah Arab, Khalifa Qezel Ayak, Mirza Mohammad Qasim, Mawlawi Haider, Mawlawi Sarwar Takhari, Mawlawi Mohammad Osman, Abdul Samad Istalifi and Allauddin Faryabi will be remembered for centuries by our nation.
April 1984, Islamabad
Concluded
Khalili was 11 years old when King Amanullah hanged is father and confiscated his property. His father was the finance minister of King Habibullah, Amanunllah's father.
Khalili was exiled to to Parwan Province along with his brothers and sisters. The government had banned Khalili from entering school.
Khalili secretly took lessons in Islamic science from a local religious and spiritual man, Hafezgi Saheb. At the age of 13, he started to write poetries.
When Amanullah was dethroned by Habibullah, Khalili became the tax officer of Mazar.
He was jailed in 1947 on charges of sympathizing with the uprising of Safi tribe in Kunar to which Khalili belonged. After one year in prison, he was banished to Kandahar.
From 1949 to 51, he served as the minister of Information and Culture, the Dean of the Kabul University and Secretary General of the Cabinet Later he became the Cultural Advisor of King Zahir and remained in this post for 13 years.
He served as an ambassador to Saudi Arbaia and to Iraq.
Khalili resigned from his job immediately after the communist coup oi ‘ 1978 and became a poet of the Mujahideen.
He died in Pakistan in 1987.
Turmoil in Kunar damages Jehad
Armed conflict between Hezb Island (Hikmatyar) and Jamaat Da'wa (Jamilur Raman) for control of Kunar Province and the assassination of Da'wa leader have caused irreparable political and human losses for the Afghan resistance.
Kunar is a valley along the border with Pakistan. Armed struggle against the communist regime started in this valley in 1978.
During the Soviet occupation of the valley, the Mujahideen fought against the Soviets in unity. When the Soviets left Kunar in 1988 trouble began. Jamaat Da'wa refused to join an administration created by the other parties. When Hezb Islami left the AIG in mid 1989, it cooperated with Da'wa party against AIG-sponsored administration. In order to consolidate their control over Kunar, Hezb and Da’wa party agreed to bold general elections but each side claimed that it had the one the elections.
Da'wa party who enjoyed financial support from Saudi Arabia continued to expand its influence. It forced other parties out of Kunar. Three months ago, Da'wa party succeeded in capturing Hezb bases in the valley and framed a single administration in Kunar.
The UN had chosen Kunar the place where refugees should return. More than 30 international aid organizations worked there in the field of mine-clearing, education, irrigation, health and road construction. Da'wa administration fully cooperated with these organizations during their short-lived control of valley.
Control of Kunar by Da'wa, whose followers call themselves Salafis, could not calm the situation. Propaganda war between Hezb and Salafis intensified. It seemed that Hezb was preparing to recapture its lost positions in Kunar.
While Hezb was the main rival group against Salafis, other Mujahideen parties woe also angry with Salafis because that party had forced them out of Kunar. Hezb tried to involve other parties in the attack against Salafis. In the final attack some commanders belonging to other parties also took part in fighting to regain their lost position. Salafis lost their position in the main valley and retreated to Pech valley, the home of Mawlawi Jamilur Rahman.
Hezb Islami papers described the capture of Asadabad, the provincial capital of Kunar, as a big victory fra that party.
In order to minimize the dangers of infighting, a group of well-wishers from Pakistan, Middle-East and some Afghan personalities tried to mediate between the two sides. A five-member committee under the leadership of Mawlawi Hasanjan was formed to find a solution to the problem.
While attempts to reconcile between the two sides were in progress, Mawlawi Jamilur Rahman, the head of Da'wa party, was assassinated on August 30 by an Egyptian, Abdullah Roomi. The assassin was killed by Jamilur Rahman guards. The motive of the assassin is not known.
Hezb condemned assassination of Mawlawi Jamilur Rahman and termed it as a conspiracy of the enemies of Islam against Jehad.
Mawlawi Sameeullah from Ningarhar, was appointed as the new leader of Da'wa party.
Jamilur Rahman, 58, became involved in politics during the rule of President Daud. He took part in the uprising of 1975 against Daud. Da'wa leader whose real name is Mohammad Hussain comes from Ninglam village of Pech District, Kunar province. He belongs to the Safi tribe.
After Hikmatyar left Jami’at in 1975 and formed Hezb, Jamilur Rahman remained with Jami'at fra a while. Later he joined Hezb and till 1982 served as the provincial Amir or Hezb in Kunar.
His Salafi way of thinking made him popular among other Salafis , locally know as Wahabis, in Saudi Arabia and other countries in the Middle-East He received enormous amount of money from them and hundreds of Arab volunteers joined his forces.
Jamilur Rahman supported Saudi Arabia in Gulf war while Hikmatyar spoke is support Saddam Husain, Hezb publications blamed Saudi secret services for the troubles of Kunar.
Saudi government sent a delegation to Pakistan to confirm its support to all Mujahideen. The seven-member Saudi delegation was headed by Abdullah Alhasan Al-Turky, the rector Islamic Universities of the Kingdom,
To Page (8)