AFGHANews Vol 5, No 10, May 15,1989, page @
Kabul Province
The Kabul-Jalalabad road is still closed and the Mujahideen from Jami'at have frustrated repeated attempts by the enemy to open it.
The Mujahideen belonging to commander Anwer Khan brought a section of the road in Tangi Abrishumi under their control on April 18.
The enemy air force, artillery and repeated attacks of ground forces have not been able to push them out of their positions along the road.
The enemy has lost a large number of tanks and trucks. A considerable number of the enemy soldiers have I been killed, wounded or captured.
Despite heavy bombing by the air force the causalities of the Mujahideen are very low.
Bombing takes place day and night and in some cases the enemy planes have bombed the Mujahideen's position 120 times in 24 hours.
The enemy supply convoys have concentrated in Sorobi town, halfway between Kabul and Jalalabad. This town also has been a target of the Mujahideen attacks.
Exploiting the favorable terrain, the Mujahideen mine the road, ambush convoys and fire with heavy weapon to i block the road.
The Mujahideen have made use of TOW wire-guided missiles effectively against enemy armored columns.
A special point about the war is the introduction of militia units from Herat. So far one hundred of these militiamen have been captured by the Mujahideen. This enemy tactic to use local militiamen in fighting outside their own areas is aimed at creating mistrust between people of different regions. -
Following are the day to day accounts of fighting along the Kabul-| Jalalabad road from April 26 to May 10:
On April 26, the enemy's attempt
to open the road was foiled when the Mujahideen destroyed 15 tanks and two trucks. The Mujahideen captured 25 rifles. The enemy casualties were not known and the Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
On the same day, a convoy of 20 trucks which was on its way from Jalalabad to Sorobi was ambushed. Eleven trucks were destroyed and the rest managed to retreat to Jalalabad. Six soldiers were captured and an unknown number of soldiers were either killed or wounded.
On April 29, the enemy carried out 20 air raids in 24 hours. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
The enemy's attempts to open die road on April SO and May first were foiled. In two days of fighting the enemy lost 17 tanks and 18 trucks laden with ammunition. The Mujahideen seized 41 guns and captured 36 soldiers. 190 soldiers were either killed or wounded
on May 2, the Mujahideen destroyed 18 trucks carrying ammunition and food to the soldiers in the besieged city of Jalalabad. Sixteen soldiers were captured and 30 killed or wounded.
On May 3, eight trucks were destroyed by landmines and nine soldiers were captured. The enemy positions in Sorobi district came under the Mujahideen attack. It is believed that the enemy suffered casualties but no details are available.
On May 5, the Mujahideen destroyed two tanks and frustrated an enemy attempt to open the road. The enemy air force bombed the Mujahideen positions.
On May 6, the enemy launched a major attack to open the road. The Mujahideen destroyed 20 tanks and 20 trucks and oil tankers, killed or wounded 30 soldiers and captured 15 solders with their guns.
Sorobi distric was grounded by Mujahideen artillery as result of which38 enemy soldiers were killed or
wounded.
On May 7, the enemy air force bombed the Mujahideen positions which continued all day. A recoiless rifle and a BM-12 rocket launcher of the Mujahideen were destroyed.
The Mujahideen fired rockets pn the enemy positions in Sorobi which set an ammunition dump on fire.
On May 8, an enemy attack was repulsed. Eight tanks were destroyed with TOW wire-guided missiles and 14 trucks were captured. The enemy air force carried out several air raids which caused no casualties.
On May 9, the Mujahideen fired heavy weapon into the enemy positions and the communists retaliated by aerial bombing.
On May 10, the enemy lost five tanks and two trucks when it launched an attack to open the road. Twelve enemy soldiers were killed and six captured. The Mujahideen seized 10 guns.
The enemy BM-13 rocket launcher in Sorobi was destroyed by the Mujahideen.
♦Three enemy soldiers were killed and six captured when the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked their post in Khawja Musafir area on Kabul Paghman road on March 30.
The Mujahideen seized 20 Kalashinkov rifles, one mortar, two grenov machine guns and some amount of ammunition.
In the operation which was launched by the Mujahideen belonging to commander Mullah Ezat one Mujahid was injured and a number of houses were destroyed by regime shelling of the area.
♦On April 7, the enemy positions in Bagh-e-Daud on Paghman-Kabu! road was attacked with ground-to-ground rockets.
Three enemy tanks and one truck were set on fire, two buildings were destroyed and an unknown number of soldiers belonging a Special Guard unit were killed.
In a retaliatory attack by the enemy, one Mujahid from Paghman and three civilians from Khawja Musafir were killed and several houses were destroyed.
♦On April 26, the Mujahideen from Jami'at clashed with the enemy forces in Kariz Mir, about 10 kilome ters north of the city of Kabul as a result of which 17 enemy soldi^rs^and officers were killed and five were captured. Two Mujahideen were killed and five wounded. They seized five Kalashnikov rifles.