AFGHANews Vol7, No 7, April 1,1991,'page ©
Merits of rich vs. poor
I told the false dervish: "Don't and not realized that tlrey are all cause*
criticize the rich. They are the ount of generosity."
He said: "You are wrong. They are slaves to money. What use their being loaded like the spring clouds if they never rain? Or what use their being brilliant like the sun if they never shine on anybody? They never do anything gratuitously for the sake of God, and if they give, they give with such bad grace that it insults the receiver. They take infinite pains to acquire wealth, they keep their money like misers and they die miserable at the thought of leaving their property behind them. As the wise saying goes:
y are all caused by poverty? Have you not heard of the beggar caught in flagrante delicto with a youth? He was struck dumb with shame but was forced to speak for fear of being stoned. "See, Muslims! I am too poor to pay for a wife and too lusty to be always abstinent - so what else can I do? There are no monks in Islam."
One of the reasons why the rich man keeps young and healthy is that every night he enjoys his lawful pleasures, and wakes up refreshed and rejouvenat-ed in the morning. How should he turn from these pleasures to those ugly sins? Most poor people stain their purity with disobedience and incontinence. Most hungry people gobble their food
You can dig up the miser's gold without pausing to ask whether it is fron the ground only when he pure or not And how many veiled
dies and is buried in the ground."
I replied: "If you find the rich to be miserly, that is only because you are a beggar. If you would only abandon your greed, you would look with indifference on both the generous and the ungenerous."
"I have seen them myself, " he said, "Placing rough guards at their doors to deny access to distinguished guests, with the excuse that nobody was at home. Indeed when a man has neither reason nor intelligence nor integrity, you can truly say that he is out to dinner!"
"Of course!" I exclaimed. "They are worn out by the demands of beggars. If all the sands of the desert turned into precious pearls, the beggar's greedy eyes would still not be satisfied, any more than a deep well can be filled with dew. Wherever you find someone who has experienced hardship and misfortune, he throws himself into the most criminal actions without fear of the consequences or even of Divine judgement. You pelt a dog with a stone, he jumps for joy thinking it a bone. When a funeral procession passes, the beggar's only thought is that his dinner is on its way!
I ask you, tell me Honestly, have you ever seen a man languishing in prison or a woman forced to sell her virginity, or a common thief with his hand cut off? Have you ever seen these things
beauties have been forced by poverty to sink into corruption and throw their good name to the winds?
Hatem Tay the Beduin was famed for generosity in the desert; had he lived in the city, the rush of beggars and scroungers would have reduced him to naked poverty."
The false dervish replied: "You misjudge me! I merely felt sorry for the poor."
I said: "No! You merely envy the rich!"
I countered every point that he made. We reached stalemate. Finally he ran out of points to make, while I still had plenty in my arsenal. So he started in-Turn to page (6)
AFGHAN
PROVERBS
1
Saying salam is a sign of true faith.
Meaning: A sincere greeting is an expression of real religion.
Glory is fitting to God alone. Meaning: A person should not be proud.
♦<$'*	Ji
On this side the staff, on that side the panther.
Meaning: Between the devil and the deep blue sea.
♦<JL <J
When sorrows come, they come not single spies. But in battalions. Meaning: Misery loves company.
uraim:

Ramadhan starts, the gates
ave
and the gates ot Hen are are chaifcMHMMHB