flFOHfiH HtlB Ufil.III, NO, 9, 1/5/ 196T PflBC 3
 destroyed. The enemy bombed the area with artillery as a result of which 6 houses were destroyed and 9 sheep belonging to the poor people of the area were killed
 11/4/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at in Mirbacha Koot district ambushed an enemy convoy and destroyed several tanks and trucks. The enemy retaliated with an artillery bombardment of the bazaar. A large number of old men, women and children were killed or injured, A bus was bit and took fir®. The occupants of the bus were either killed or injured. The report does not give any figure for the casualties of the Mujahideen or the enemy forces.
                                                  LOGAR PROVINCE
 3/4/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at in Logar province under the command of Commander Fazluliah launched a series of attacks against the enemy base in Pul-i-Alam * and some of their security posts in the area with heavy weapons. Attacks continued for two successive nights. As a result of the attacks 4 APCs, 14 trucks and a fuel dump were set on fire. Both Soviets and puppets suffered casualties.
 Logar is a strategic province located South of Kabul. Logistic lines of the resistance pass through there. The road connecting Kabul to Paktia also passes through Logar. The resistance has been active since 1978 in the province and all the resistance parties work in harmony together. Most of the population of this province have become refugees in Pakistan Due to the flatness of the ground which has little cover, the enemy has been able to put a lot of pressure on the Mujahideen.
                                                BAGHIAN PROVINCE
 28/3/1987. Both Mujahideen and the enemy forces suffered heavy casualties in six days of fighting in the city of Baghian
 They launched a big attack against Mujahideen in the Industrial area of Baghian and wanted to circle and supress the Mujahideen forces. In the first stage they were able to besiege the Mujahideen forces but the Mujahideen broke the siege by attacking from inside and outside the siege circle. Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Mullah Shams and Mujahideen from Hezb under the command of Mamoor Ghayoor fought the enemy together. Their co-operation and heroic resistance averted a big disaster. The losses of the two sides are as follows.
 Enemy losses:
        1- Thirty-one tanks and APCs were destroyed either by RPG fire or land mines
        2- More than 300 puppets and Soviet forces were killed and wounded.
        3- Twenty AK-47s were captured by the Mujahideen.
 Mujahideen losses are as follows:
        1- Thirty-five Mujahideen were martyred.
        2- Twenty civilians were martyred.
        3- Twenty-nine Mujahideen were captured
        4- Forty-eight Mujahideen were injured.
        5- Sixty weapons of different kinds and some ammunition were lost to the enemy.
        6- A large number of houses and gardens were destroyed and crops set on fire.
                                                 BALKH PROVINCE
 15/4/1987, An enemy jet was shot down with DShK fire in Sholgar district The Jet crashed near Ahmad Abad village. The report does not mention the type of the plane.
 9/1/1987. Enemy forces attacked Mujahideen positions in Goor Taipa area. Fighting continued from 5 to 6:00 pm. A large number of enemy forces, including one puppet