	
- XjLJL Vj JLixjL ' - * ' P.O.Box 264, Peshawar* Pakisia	>n Tel: (0521) 41381 '
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 11, June 1, 1990, page Q
Editorial
Jami'at opposed to return of old system in country
The stalemate on the battlefield and the Mujahideen's failure to unify their ranks have given fresh hope to those who want the ex-king to return to power. Several developments related to Afghanistan have encouraged Zahir Shah to intensify his political activities. Among them are the frustration of ordinary Afghans and changing attitudes toward Afghanistan in the outside world.
The common man in Afghanistan strongly desires peace. The people do not trust the Kabul regime because of its past atrocities, its un-Islamic reputation and the limited control it exercises.
On the other hand, the Mujahideen did not achievfe the quick victory that the people expected of them. When asked about the role of Zahir Shah as an alternative, some people say they do not oppose him if he can bring peace. This answer gives the ex-king and his colleagues fresh hopes for grabbing power.
The outside world wants to see an end to the Afghan problem. The Soviet Union would welcome the return of the ex-king, if the PDPA was given legal status. The Western countries also find the idea of the king's return acceptable because they think it will bring peace to Afghanistan (!) and result in a form of government which they will not have to worry about.
None of this is new. For a long time the king's domestic and foreign admirers have advised him to take practical steps, but he has not taken such a risk. It seems that he is waiting for the two superpowers and all Afghan groups to call on him to assume the leadership of the country. But that might not happen at all.
The ex-king's supporters project him as a unifying figure within the Afghan resistance. In his statements he has pointed to this unifying role by offering his mediation services. But his statements have created more rifts between the Mujahideen instead of bringing them closer.
The ex-king addresses the people as a common well-wisher of the Afghan people. He pretends to have no ambitions for power. This reminds one of his father's statement after his return to Afghanistan. After defeating Habibullah the Second, victorious Nadir Khan told the people around him that he did not have any ambitions tp become a king, but a " Jirga" of his admirers imposed the monarchy on him and his family. The only difference between the statement of the father and his son is that Nadir Khan made the statement after the victory, while Zahir Shah uses the slogan to pave the way to victory.
The ex-king has mentioned some of the difficulties Afghanistan faces today, such as ethnic, regional and sectarian issues. These problems are not new. Even during the peaceful rule of the ex-king such differences existed and people were discriminated against linguistic, regional and sectarian grounds. Government policies endorsed this discrimination to th? extent that it pushed some people to form political parties to defend the rights of their groups. The former King was unable to solve these problems at a time when everybody accepted the system. Now that the myth Of the central government has been destroyed, how could he find a Solution?
The ex-king's challenge to the legitimacy of the political leadership of the resistance does not take into account the situation in Afghanistan and the nature of the war the Mujahideen fought against Soviet forces. The present leadership of the resistance has the support of the people, without which they could not have survived a decade of war. The Mujahideen on one hand have to fight against the Kabul regime and on the other hand, have to evolve an organization to replace it. Raising slogans of popular consent through the ballot box .while the war still continues, is a mistake which is being committed even by some Mujahideen groups in order to impress outsiders. Zahir Shah's proposal is designed to undermine the
Turn to page (8)
Elections fail to resolve dispute over Kunar shoora
Abdul Basir

Controversy over the results of the Kunar elections persists, and compromise solutions have not been acceptable to the two parties participating in the elections.
Two parties, Hezb Islami Hikmatyar and Jamilur Rahman's party (known as Wahabis) participated in the contest to elect one hundred members for a provincial assembly.
According to media reports Jamilur Rahman's party was ahead of Hezb when the votes were counted. The ballot boxes from three districts of Kunar arrived late. Hezb insisted that those votes also be counted while the other party says that since they arrived after the deadline they should not be counted.
The parties within the interim government did not participated in the elections, which were held on March 1. There were contradictory reports about the voter turnout. Hezb Islami sources claimed a high turnout, while others said only two percent of eligible voters participated in the elections.
In a new development, the newly appointed governor of Kunar, Mohammad Ali Rahmani entered Asadabad, the provincial capital of Kunar, on March 17 and started his work.
When Kunar was liberated, seven parties formed an administration and appointed Mawlawi Ghulam Rabbani from Jami'at as the governor of Kunar. Jamilur Rahman's parly remained out of the administration.
Mawlawi Younus Khalis, the Interior Minister of AIG, appointed a new governor, Mohammad Ali. His appointment was opposed by Hezb Islami, Jamilur Rahman's party and Mawlawi Ghulam Rabbani. They proposed holding elections, which was in turn opposed by die AIG.
On April 10, a Pakistani paper reported that the result of Kunar elections was announced by the election commissioner. According to this report, Hezb and the Wahabis were given 35 seats each in assembly of 124 members. Jami'at was given 15 seats and the remaining seats were shared by the rest of the parties in the province.
The next day, Mawlawi Jamilur Rahman said the news was wrong and claimed that his party had won 37 seats while Hezb had won only 32 seats.
Despite the hard work by the two contesting parties in Kunar to make the elections successful, the event reveals the difficulty of holding country-wide elections. Kunar - totally liberated and close to Pakistan - was the easiest place to hold elections.	^
These developments in Kunar reveal the complicated nature of Afghan politics and the difficulties of holding electfons countrywide, using the ballot box system.