AFGHANews Vol 7, No 20, October 15,1991, page O
favor of organized work and has created an example of good work in the areas he controls. He is an Islamist who favor changes in the political, social and economic life of the people. He believes in implementation of Sharia. The fall of world communism and prospects of freedom for the Muslims in central Asia are pleasing events to him. He is fond of reading books.
His military thinking is similar to those of Masood and perhaps affected by him. In his conversations, he stressed the need to form a regular army. He has organized some of his Mujahideen into battalions. I found him a broad-mined commander whose thinking penetrates the boundaries of Ids native province. He believes in moving forward toward the major enemy centers together with other | Mujahideen.
The biggest achievement of Sayyed Najmuddin is the security that has brought to the areas he rules. One can walk for days in his territory without fear of any trouble. The intellectuals of Radakhshan are proud of his achievements and are slowly gathering around him.
Najmuddin has close relations with | Commander Aryan Poor of Keshm District Masood, Aryan Poor and Najmuddin are * the three names inscribed on die walls, on j rocks along the roads and on destroyed I tanks and helicopters. They are described as "the three shining stars of Jehad".
Relations between Basir Khalid, a Jami'at commander near Faizabad, and Najmuddin have had its ups .and downs. Basir Khan was a considered the most powerful commander of Jami'at in Badakhshan in the past But he was not very successful in expanding his territory and influence. Contrary to Basir, Najmuddin has succeeded to expand his territory beyond his home base. Being a farsighted leader, Sayyed Najmuddin established close contact with Masood. Masood helped him in liberation of some parts of Badakhshan which benefited him a great deal. Competition between Basir and Najmuddin has prevented closer cooperation between them against die common enemy. Despite these competitions the two sides have never indulged in any hostile action against each other. They feel the need for close cooperation against the communists. The positive thing is that the two sides have full confidence in Commander Masood who is trying to bring them close. The recent meeting between the two sides, held in Keshm, with the presence of Masood was a step in that direction.
Najmuddin has established a military training center in Baharak. When I was there, about 300 recruits from die newly liberated areas along the Soviet borders were being trained in die center. He has many heavy weapons including tanks, BM-21 multiple rocket launchers and 120 mm mortars .They are captured from the enemy. They make him able to play an active role in future offensives against the regime. His communication lines have expanded very quickly putting extra pressure on the limited resources he has.
He has laid die foundation of a civil administration in his area. liberation of
new areas has created extra work for him. Shortages of educated people, to be posted in these areas is a problem. The Mujahideen should prove to the people that their government is better than that of the Kabul regime. If the Mujahideen open schools, hospitals and provide job opportunities and security for the people, they can see the difference. This work needs trained people. Educated Afghans living in exile can be of a great help. From conversation with him, I realized that the commander welcomed partici-
parts of Afghanistan. This town has 600 shops, hotels, a mosques and residential quarters, txiik based on an engineering plan. The okl bazaar of Baharak was demolished to move the business to the new market.
I asked Najmuddin about his policy on cultivation of poppy. He said that as a Muslim he was against it and was fully aware of its danger to Afghans and outsiders. But he admitted that struggle against poppy cultivation was not as simple as he
pation of these people in rebuilding of their Gnce thought. While he was thinking about
country.- It is a golden opportunity for Afghan intellectuals to join hands with leaders like Najmuddin who works for the improvement of the life of the people. It is the special responsibility of the local intellectuals to take part in this noble process and establish natural link with their own people through serving them.
He has paid close attention to the-education of children. There are eight high schools, including two for girls, and tens of primary schools in the areas he controls. He was keen to open teacher and technical training centers so that he graduates of the high schools have a chance for further study. He welcomes any assistance to support this project In addition to formal schools, a number of Madrasas (religious schools) have also been established in the area. The newly-liberated areas of Eshkashim, Zebak, Wakhan and Sheghnan need extra attention because there are no mosque schools in these areas and the people are ignorant about the teachings of Islam.
Najmuddin levies 10 percent tax on harvest and 20 percent on lapis extracted from mines located in die upper part of Joint valley. Due to the quick expansion of his territories, he finds it difficult to meet the financial needs of his Mujahideen. He has been successful to get some assistance from international relief organizations in the field of education, health and agriculture. He also had received some food assistance from UN brought through the border town of Eshkashim. The security situation in the area is ideal for the work of relief organizations but absence of a road useable by vehicles from Pakistan can be an impediment He is trying hard to open the road from Toop Khana to Zebak as soon as possible.
The Mujahideen ran a hospital in Jorm which is divided into men and women sections. The hospital faced shortages of medicine due to increased number of patients and donation of some the medicine to clinics in the border area, liberated this Summer.
The buildings belonging to government are protected well in Badakhshan. This is possible because there is only one party which rules the area and the Mujahideen are disciplined. A good example of protecting the public property is a huge garden in Baharak, known as Bagh-i-Zakhira. This garden is very beautiful and has all sorts of fruits. The Mujahideen have taken care of it properly.
Construction of a new town in Baharak is an initiative of Najmuddin which has no example among the Mujahideen in other
banning poppy cultivation himself, the UN officials approached him and promised assistance for the farmers in return for gradu a! reduction in poppy cultivation. They suggested a 30 percent reduction in the first year. Najmuddin said: "I thought why we should not stop it at once? I told the people to stop growing of poppy. But the UN promised help never came. The people complained to me. I did not have means to help diem. Although, I did not tell them to restart cultivation of poppy, I did not .imposed a strict bon either. While poppy , cultivation has been reduced, it is not totally banned for the reasons I gave. I am determined to ban it, but I have learned that it can be done gradually and after providing alternative means of living for the people.
Poppy has beat grown in Badakhshan since centuries. Fanners extract edible oil from poppy seeds and die ashes of the poppy plant is the main ingredient of homemade soap. At the time of Zahir Shah, poppy seed was listed as a main source of edible oil in schools text books. The opium produced wore used to make medicine for treatment of diseases caused by cold climate. It was the main pun killer available. Some people along die border woe addict-- ed to opium and -die opium produced in Badakhshan was sold within the province.
Baharak has a small hydro-electric power plant. One of die three genenrators still works. This plant was built during the occupation of die area by the Soviets. If the two other generators are repaired, the electricity produced by the plant could benefit people in and around Baharak. There are two high schools in Baharak, one for girls, and one for boys. The school buildings were being repaired with the funds from UN.
Sayyed Najmuddin is facing the opposition from two groups of Mujahideen, one belonging to Ittihad of Prof. Sayyaf and another to Hezb of Hikmatyar. They control Zerdiw side valley and have under their command about 300 aimed men. Locally they are known as Wahabi. Several unpleasant incidents in the past has kept the two sides apart from each other. In 1988, when Najmuddin captured Zebak, his rivals attacked Baharak and captured Najmuddin was forced to recapture Baharak. Exploiting the incident, the Kabul regime recaptured Zebak. An aide Najmuddin said the commander was ready for a negotiated settlement of the issue with his rivals. Due to the [last bitterness enough work is needed to find an amicable solution to this local issue.