AFGHAN HEUS VOL, II I, HO. 22,     15/11/1967,PAGE 9
included two martyred and seven wounded.
30/10/1987: Mujahideen of Zendajan attacked the puppet and militia forces in Deh Surkh area near Herat-Islamqala highway. Eight persons were killed and 13 militias were captured. Mujahideen also seized some arms and ammunitions
                                              KABUL PROVINCE
 21/10/1987: Mujahideen from Jamiat in Jegdalik.Saroobi District, shot down a Russian jet by a missile when it was bombing the area The jet crushed near Mahipar Dam The pilot ejected himself and was rescued by an enemy helicopter The report does not say anything about the type of the jet
 21/10/1987: In an operation against the enemy. Mujahideen using BM1 and BM-12, destroyed two Russian tanks and killed 12 soldiers.
                                             PERWAN PROVINCE
 6/10/1987 Mujahideen launched-an attack against a DRA post in Bagram District. During the fighting 7 soldiers were captured and an officer was killed. From Mujahideen, one person was martyred in the attack.
 On the same day' H enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded and a DRA officer was taken prisoner in addition to seizure of 7 AK-47s, one PK Machingun and one R-105 Communication set.
 9/I0/19S7: Mujahideen conducted an attack against three enemy artillery positions close to the Bagram Airbase. Using heavy weapons from a distance of 150m. Mujahideen were able to destroy one artillery unit in addition to the killing or wounding of 20 soldiers
                       UN RESOLUTION, A MAJOR VICTORY FOR OUR CAUSE
 UN General Assembly passed a resolution on November 10, calling for the withdrawal of foreign troops (Soviets) from Afghanistan One hundred and twenty three countries voted for the resolution whilel9 countries, mainly belonging to Soviet block, voted against it and 11 others abstained from voting.
 The two days debate on Afghan issue was more fierce than the previous years because of the Soviet attempts to introduce new items in the resolution to connect the withdrawal with the so-called interference from outside in the affairs of Afghanistan.
Soviets started working towards this end of month before the General Assembly convened. Delegates from the puppet regime under auspices of the Soviets visited a large number of Third World countries India was in the forefront of lobbying for the Soviets among the non-aligned nations
The resolution on the Afghan issue was sponsored by 48 countries The representatives of the puppet regime tried to include the so-called National Reconciliation in the resolution which was rejected . Later the two Islamic (!) and Arabic countries of Syria and South Yemen tried to include a Soviet-sponsored amendment which was opposed by Pakistan and other sponserers
The debate on the issue was lively, The Soviet Union- and its supporters in the General Assembly repeated their stories of helping a friendly nation against foreign intervention. On the other hand speakers from Islamic countries, non-aligned movements and the rest of free world clearly rejected the Soviet arguments and asked