ArGHANews 7ol4, Ho 13, July 1,1988, Page 5
Commanders from ten provinces approve future plans
THE fifth meeting of the commanders, of the Supervisory Council of the North (SCN) concluded after important decisions were made about future course of action in military and political fields.
The meeting which was presided over by Commander Masood discussed the latest developments in Use country in a friendly and cordial atmosphere. The meeting which started on June fifth and continued for eight days was held in Ferfchar valley.
In this historical Meeting, Commanders from the provinces of Badakhshan, T&khar, Kunduz, Baghlan, Samangan, Banyan, Perwan, Kapisa, Laghmaa and North of Kabul participated.
The meeting listened to the reports presented by each Commander about his last year's achievements and problems. The military and political developments in the country was discussed in detail. The meeting reached a number of important decisions in different fields.
The meeting agreed to Implement Sharia in the areas contrasted by SCN,
In order to bring better coordination and cooperation among the Mujahideen it was decided to divide the areas controlled by SCN into lour mats..
•	Northern zone which will cover the provinces of Ssmangan, Balkh, Jauzja® and Faryab.
*	North-Eastern zone which will include provinces of Badakhshaa, Baghlan, Takhar and Kunduz.
•Central zone which will include K&pisa, Bamyan and North of Kabul,
•Eastern zone which includes Laghman, Tag&b,
Neijrafe (two district of Kapisa province) and East and South-East of Kabul,
The meeting resolved to form a council of elders and religious ieaders.its purpose is to give opportunities to the people belonging to different walks of life to particiapte in running the affairs of their country.
To be able to plan, the need for reliable statistics was felt by the Council, The meeting approved the plan to carry out a population census in the liberated zones.
A high court of justice will be formed is each zone.
In the field of the education it was decided to form a separate education committee to make sure that the children get proper education. Until now the Cultural Committee was responsible for running schools in addition to other cultural activities.
In the military field the Council approved the plan to form an Islamic army.
The decision was made to increase the level of fighting against the enemy.
Now that more areas are liberated a transportation committee will be formed to organise transportation by vehicles. This will help both military as well as civilian programs.
On the cultural field it was decided to start publishing a paper and install a radio stall cm as soon as the equipment is available.
To help the people economically > it was decided to take proper steps to . increase farm products, bring unused land under cultivation, build roads and bridges and construct new
water channels and improve the conditions of the existing ones. To achieve the above aims, an economic and reconstruction committee will be established.
The Health Committee will expand its work in all the areas controlled by the Council.
The meeting has invited all the educated people living outside the country to return to the country and serve their people.
The meeting passed a number of resolutions concerning different political and military issues;
•The SCN categorically rejects the Geneva accord which disregards the sacred blood of the martyrs of Islamic Revolution, it also disregards the authenticity and independent character of the Afghanistan jehad and Mujahideen.
•	The SCN demands from the Russian leadership to desist from any kind of support to the puppet Kabul regime while withdrawing the troops,
® The SCN categorically rejects alt the political maneuvers, hand-picked Jergas , puppet parliaments and coalition governments—all of which are plots by Communist imperialism and desperate attempts to ensure the survival of the puppet regime ia Kabul.
•	The SCN earnestly requests all the battle-field fronts, ail the Muiahid brothers, and all the Muslims of Afghanistan to urgently unite their ranks. They should gather together regardless of political, ethnic, regional and organizational distinctions. That will prepare the grounds for the faster liberation of the country, restoration of its