AFGHANews Voi 6, No 20 & 21, November 1, 1990, page©
News
rtf ft
From The Battlefields
Parwan Province
In seven days of operations in the Salang Valley, the Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council destroyed 20 posts, six ammunition caches, six tanks, one armored car, 125 trucks and oil tankers and 12 heavy weapons, HINA reported.
The attack, which started on October 3, blocked the Salang highway for seven days.
The Mujahideen attacked the security posts along the road, regime garrisons and supply convoys with heavy weapons.
The targets attacked included 5 th Division headquarters in Qala-i-Surkh, 2nd Division headquarters in Jabul Seraj and the regime garrisons in Kooklami, Qalatak and Olang inside the Salang Valley.
Enemy aircraft bombed the Mujahideen positions in and around Salang, as a result of which some Mujahideen and civilians were injured.
No information was available about enemy casualties when this report was Filed.
•A great fire burned part of Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan on October 11. The cause of the fire and the scale of damage was not immediately known.
Balkh Province
•The Mujahideen from Jami’at destroyed one tank and two ;trucks and killed 10 enemy soldiers in an ambush in Aaqcha District on October 10. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
•Fifteen enemy soldiers were killed and seven were captured wheat, the Mujahideen attacked them on tike Mazar-Shebirghan road in mid October. The Mujahideen captured 24 weapons of different types.
•In Sholgar District, the Mujahideen destroyed 12 armored cars and 14 trucks and killed or wounded 100 enemy soldiers. The Fighting started on October 9. The Mujahideen captured an anti-aircraft gun, one jeep and one truck. Twenty Mujahideen were killed and 20 sustained injuries.
Kabul Province
One enemy tank was destroyed and six enemy soldiers were killed by a land mine in Deh-Sabz district of Kabul on 13 October. The tank was going towards the capital when it hit by the mine planted by the Mujahideen.
eight air crewmen near Shar-i-Safa on October 3. Two tanks and eight trucks were also captured.
The tanks belonged to reinforcement units sent from Kandahar to help the regime garrison in Qalat, the provincial capital of Zabul, which is besieged by the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen attacked the reinforcements in Shar-i-Safa.
The convoy was forced to return to Kandahar. On the way back the convoy came under Mujahideen attack. Only a fraction of the original force managed to return back to Kandahar, the rest was either captured or destroyed.
The Mujahideen from all parties, including Jami'at, took part in the operation.
Faryab Province
Eight enemy soldiers defected to the Mujahideen in Maimana on October 5, HINA reported.
They defected after killing two soldiers loyal to the regime, and joined the Mujahideen under the command of Abdullah Choopan. They brought ten weapons with them.
A Mujahideen source in Maimana said that the Mujahideen have killed two regime soldiers in an ambush near Khwaja Qishlaq.
Kunduz Province Baghlan Province
•Three tanks were destroyed and two security posts were captured by the Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council on Kunduz-Khwajaghar road on October 23.
One enemy soldier was killed and one was wounded in the attack. The Mujahideen captured a truck loaded with foodstuffs.
The Kabul regime sends supplies to Khwajaghar garrison through this road. After being defeated in Taliqan, the Kabul regime has established itself in Khwajaghar, about 40 kilometers west of Taliqan and close to the border with USSR.
•Five enemy soldiers defected to Mujahideen under the command of Mullah Mohammad Tahir on October 19, HINA reported.
The soldiers brought with them one rocket launcher. Five Kalashnikov rifles and one radio set The soldiers were stationed in the security post close to the city of Kunduz.
Kandahar Province
The Mujahideen shot down one helicopter and captured another with
Forty militiamen who belonged to SAZA (a communist faction in the north, which shares power with the PDPA), defected’ to commander Mullah Shams from the Hasantal area of Baghlan on 29. September, HINA reported.
The soldiers brought with them 30 Kalashnikov rifles, one ZPU-1 (14.6 mm machine-gun), three RPG-7 rocket launchers, one R-107 radio set, seven trucks and 100,000 rounds Of ammuni tion. The villages of Salangi and Chacha were liberated after the defection.
Hasantal is situated in the suburbs of the city of Baghlan. Mullah Shams is a famous Jami'at commander in Baghlan.
•Two tanks and one security post of the regime were destroyed on October 14 by the Mujahideen from Jami'at.in Baghlan city.
In the attack, which took place un der the command of Mullah Shams, considerable number of regime troops were either killed Or wounded.
Two Mujahideen were killed and
Turn to page (7 )