                    8FGURH HEUS UOL-III, HO.9, 1/5/ 198? PAGE 2
------------1
 Physically, far from harming the body, fasting has good effect on the health. Of course ‘ there are certain exceptions which Islam recognizes. The traveling person, a person who is sick or too old, a women who has her monthly period or has given birth to a baby, and also an expecting and a breast-feeding mother are exempted from fasting. A Mujahid who is fighting in the battle-field is also exempted. Other than the exceptions, the medical science has proved that fasting cleans up the digestion system, takes away the extra fat and poisons stored and the body.
 The above survey of the significances of fasting is understandably brief, But it show’s what a marvelous institution Islamic fasting is. It is also important to note here the significance of fasting for Afghanistan Jehad.
 It is clear that the Afghan Mujahideen began their fight against the athieSts and have carried it out so far for the sake of God. The Mujahideen's determination and patience and perseverance in facing hardships and difficulties are unmatched. They have waged a relentless war against a "superpower" with bare feet, empty hands and empty stomachs. Fasting among other Islamic teachings has certainly played an important
 role in preparing the Mujahideen for undertaking their heroic task.
                                        :
 8/4/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at in Mohmand Dara district who were supported by the Mujahideen from Hezb and Jabha attacked the enemy posts of Shinwar. After losing 3 men the puppets abandoned the posts.The Mujahideen captured some food stuff. Three Mujahideen were injured during the operation.
 5/4/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked Ghani Khail regiment and security posts in Kada Farm, with heavy weapons. The enemy suffered casualties, the number of which were not immediately known. The Mujahideen returned safely to their bases.
 2/4/1987. The enemy forces attacked Mujahideen positions in Qarabagh district. Heavy fighting took place from 6:30 am to 4:00 pm of the same day. More than 50 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded. Four Mujahideen were martyred, one captured and 16 others wounded.
 14/4/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at in Mirbacha Koot district clashed with the enejy forces. Fighting continued for 3 hours. One tank, one APC and two enemy trucks were
 «
                  FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS
                               NANGARHAR PROVINCE
                                  NORTH OF KABUL