  AfGflAJLMgS mJU________MO. 23 1/12/1986_BASIL 9
                                   MUJAHIDEEN DELEGATION TO THE UN
 The Mujahideen sent a delegation to New York at the eve of the General Assembly's debate of Afghanistan issue.
 This year the delegation was led by Mauiawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, the current spokesman of Alliance. Taking into account the nature of such a trip, this year it gained a fair amount of publicity
 So far the purpose of the trip has been confined to providing information to the world about the real situation in Afghanistan.
 It is necessary to give a greater purpose for such trips and its final aim should be* regaining the seat of Afghanistan in the UN
 In order to do that both, Mujahideen and the friends of Afghanistan, especially the IOC and the Non-Aligned Movement should take proper steps in this direction,
 The resistance should forge a better unity in the political and military fields among the member parties. They also need to agree on a political program to avoid difficulties of the past, A common office should be openened in New York and an advisory body of Afghan experts be formed to advise the high council of the Alliance about the political
 and legal aspects of the problem.
 The friends of Afghanistan, especially I.Q.C should support the political initiative of the Mujahideen and as a first step recognize the Resistance as the full member of I.O.C.
 These steps lead to the recognition of the Resistance as the sole representative of the people of Afghanistan by a large number of countries. The question of regaining the Afghanistan seat which will be decided in the General Assembly! where the Soviets can not veto the move) has a fair chance of success. There is the need for careful planning
 and and hard work
                                           VIOLENCE AT THE UN
 When the Mujahideen delgation was going to hold a press confrence inside the UN building, 3 so-called diplomats of the puppet regime attempted to prevent the delegation from entering the conference hall They resorted to violence inside the UN building It was a blatant vocation of the UN rules and against the spirit of the organaization which has bees established to preserve peace Ail the three puppets possessed diplomatic status.
 The incident reveals the attitude of those who have helped the Sovets to kill a million of their own people and are kept in power with the help of 150, 000 Soviet troops
 Pakistan and Saudi Arabia lodged a protest against the puppets' undiplomatic action. The UN General Secretary called it a deplorable incident.
 We believe that the decision to resort to violence and attempt to stop the Mujahideen delegation can not be made by the puppets themselves Inside Afghanistan and outside,
 they wait for directions from the Soviets. Who are the puppets to do such a thing in the UN building without the Soviets approval? Those who are fully aware of the Soviet-puppet relationship do not find it difficult to to understand the Soviets’ hand behind
 this ugly incident.
                                           MADINA ORPHENAGE
 Madina orphanage was established three years ago to take care of some of those children who have lost their parents in the war against the Soviet invaders. It has a beautiful building, crutside Peshawar, which houses 450 boys of the age 4 to 10. There is a separate branch of the orphanage which has a total number of 100 girls of the same