| [M THE HtlB Of AUlIOKTl ALLAH \
AFGH ANnews
            A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM I‘AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                  VOLL, 111NO. 15&16, 15/8.87
                                 ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT: CLARIFYING SOME CONFUSIONS
One of the question usually posed to Afghan MuJahideen--or . to other committed Muslim activaits for that matter--is:
"What kind of an Islamic government do you advocate?". It is not possible to present an overview of the Islamic gover--nment in a short essay such this. What is possible to do is. to suggest some points in order to clarify some confusions on the issue.                   *
                       r ■
1.  Islam does not pesent a blue print of an Islamic government. It gives the values and principles on the basis of,
which an Islamic government should be built. Muslims believe Islam to be a religion for all of humanity and for all. time to come. The way Muslims can justify this assertion is the fact that Islam presents elements of continuity and elements of change. The values that a society should strive ^ for and the principles on the basis of which it should construct its social, political and economic structures are the elements of continuity. How a society should strive to achieve those values and how the structures should be built will depend on the conditions of time and society.
Thus, there is not one and only one form of the Islamic government. Neither can any government using the label could be considered "Islamic". There can be many forms of Islamic government. But all of them must strive for the same values and be constructed on the basis of same principes.
2.  Islamic government is not a return to the 7th century.
It is true that the Madina' society at the time of Propht Mohammad and the Righteous caliphs provide the model for
an Islamic government. But the Madina society’s significance lies in the fact that i t demonstrated that Islamic ideals --presented in the form of values and principles--are not beyond the reach of humankind. The Madina society was a society of Justice, virtue,' morality, brotherhood, and cooperation of all the members for a common goal. It was a soci-ey in which the leaders were accessible to all the members and their living conditions were no better-- if notworse--than others. It was a society in which the leader.consulted the people for carrying on the affairs of the state even though the leader was the Prophet of God. It was a society in which the decisions made by the majority were implemented although they were against the views of the leader. It was a society in which every member could freely express his views and even question the leader for his actions. It was a society in which the government felt itself responsible to provide jobs for those who lacked and welfare to the needy --even if he/she did not adhere to the state idiology. It was