flFDHfH ttWS VOL.Ill, HO.14, 15/7/ 1907 PflCE ?
                               EXTENTION OF NON-EXISTING CEASE FIRE
 The puppet regime’s lea<Jer has said that the "cease fire" announced on January 15 vill be extended. The regime announced such a “cease fire" in January 15 but neither the regime nor the Mujahideen observed the so-called cease-fire.
 After the announcement of the cease fire var escalated and even the Soviet-DrA forces launched several large scale offensives against Mujahideen positions. The wr against refugees end Pakistani people intensified and more than 300 people lost their lives during the current year. The influx of refugees to Pakistan continued. Under these circumstances vhen no cease fire existed, the. extention of the cease fire is no more than continuation of the propaganda launched by the Soviets and their puppets under the name of "National Reconciliation” and “cease fire".
 No doubt Soviets have benefited from the propaganda they made about "cease fire" and "National Reconciliation”, and vant to continue their propaganda as long as it serves
 their interests.
                                       UN REPORTER VISITS KABUL
 It is reported that UN special reporter on Violation of Human Rights in Afghanistan, Dr Felix Ermacora, -will be alloved by the Soviets to visit Kabul soon. He vas not allowed in the past to visit occupied Afghanistan This late decision of the Soviets is pari of their political game to vin credit for their puppets. Dr. Ermacora's trip vill be a difficult one. He vill be keen to get detailed inf ormation about the real situation vhile his hosts try to pre-arrange every thing and hide the facts.
 Ve believe the UN special reporter is fully avare of the .situation in occupied Afghanistan end vill not limit his activities to vhat the Soviets and their puppet vent him to do, but ask difficult questions concerning the violation of Human Rights
 Dr Ermacora has done a good job in the past by filing reports on violation of human rights m Afghanistan and in drawing public attention tovards the biggest tragedy of
 our time.
                              THE ROLE OF THE HORSES IN AFGHAN JEHAD
 Transportation of supplies and patients are important parts of the vhols armed struggle. In a mountainous country like Afghanistan, pack animals, especially horses play an important role in this respect.
 The armed struggle covers the length and the breath of Afghanistan. Thousands of tons of equipment and supplies of different kinds are carried hundreds of miles each year. Due \u Soviet aerial superiority, venerability of the roads to the enemy ambushes and ruggedness of the terrain vehicular transportation is very limited to the flat areas of South and South-Vest. Camels are being used for transportation but due to its slov movement, huge si2e and inability io go on rough terrain, they have limited use
 Donkeys are being used but they are slov and carry little load and have problems crossing rivers and bridges Mules are being used by the Mujahideen but since Afghans were not traditionally using mules as a domestic pack animal fevof them are available, alter cl 1 horses remain the main pack animal used for transportation.
 Before the var local people all over the country, especially in the North used horses for riding and transportation of goods. Ordinary farmers kept ordinary horses but rich people- kept strong and beautiful horses for riding and sports — "BuzkasTn” and horse
 races.
 Due to this background people of Afghanistan are familiar vith horses, knov hov to take care of them and feel comfortable vorking vith them. This is the major reason vhy the horses have become the principle pack animal of Jehad.