AFGHANews Vol 6, No 3, February 1,1990, page Q
Afghanistan, Cambodia facing similar situation
Mohamamd Es’haq
The withdrawal of Soviet troops did not result in a return of peace for Afghanistan. Similarly, the withdrawal of Vietnamese troops from Cambodia has not brought the war to an end in that country .
Afghanistan and Cambodia, two Asian countries, have experienced similar developments during a decade of their occupation and future developments in these countries might follow the same pattern.
There are many similarities between the struggle of these two countries against the foreign invaders.
The two countries were invaded by their militarily-superior neighbors and the ruling regimes in both countries were replaced with new governments brought to power by the invaders. In both cases, the invading forces acted in such a way to give a permanent role for their client regimes after the withdrawal of their forces.
Sovietization policy in Afghanistan and Vietnamization program in Cambodia were designed to control all aspects of the life in these two countries by the invaders
Both countries have suffered heavy losses in men and materials and a great number of their population has been displaced due to the war. Of course the scale of destruction and population displacement are different in each country.
The Afghan resistance and Cambodian fighters have enjoyed the moral, and political support of the majority of the world countries in their war for liberation.
Afghan Mujahideen and the resistance in Cambodia have had the active support of their neighbors in the form of humanitarian support for the refugees, political support and material aid for the fighters to enable them to continue their war for liberation. Cooperation of their neighbors have played a key role in forcing the invaders to withdraw their troops.
Economic and political considerations of the invaders in both cases were the main reason behind the withdrawal of their troops. Changes in Soviet Union facilitated die withdrawal of foreign forces from both countries. Moscow was the real player behind Vietnam in Cambodia while in Afghanistan it was involved in direct combat.
Vietnam and the Soviet Union have remained committed in supporting
their client regimes in Phnom Penh and Kabul. They have continued to pour enormous amount of arms and ammunition to their clients, have given them financial assistance and have helped them with advisors.
The resistance in both countries fought a low intensity guerrilla war against the superior invading forces. They left before the freedom fighter had reached an advanced stage of war. The two resistances are facing the same problem of changing tactics to deal with the regular armies of the regimes in power.
The resistance in Cambodia has more experience in organizational and tactical aspects of the war while the Afghan resistance is highly popular and its activities cover the whole country.
In both cases the invasion brought about the denunciations of communism and the puppet regimes in both countries try to hide their communist identity.
Despite the above similarities there are diversities between the two movements.
The Afghan resistance is highly motived by religious beliefs and is supported by the majority of Afghans all. over the country. Love for freedom and country are subordinated to the Islamic ideals of martyrdom and fighting an infidel invader. All resistance groups in Afghanistan fight Jehad "a holy war".
In Cambodia, the major motive has been nationalism and compared to Afghanistan the areas of the resistance activities have been geographically limited.
The resistance in Cambodia have been able to form a political structure under the leadership of Prince Norodom Sihanouk, an internationally recognized figure.
The Afghan resistance has not been able to form an organization broad-based enough to include all those who oppose the communist regime of Najibullah. AIG is an attempt towards this aim but more steps are needed to turn it into a representative body. Only time will tell wether it can it turn into an effective and representative organization.
The Cambodian resistance have enjoyed another benefit over the Afghan resistance and that is the membership of the UN. The UN has proved an extremely useful forum for the Cambodian resistance. The Afghan UN
Turn to page (7)
An Afghanistan Research and Study department has been opened in the International Study Center of the Foriegn Ministry of Iran.
In the inaugral session of the Department some Afghan and Iranian scholars participated.
***
*
According to news agencies the British High Commissioner in Islamabad has asked the Pakistan government to provide protection for a BBC reporter stationed in Islamabad.
The BBC reporter has been threatened by some unidentified people for alleged false reproting of the Afghan war.
***
Families of missing Soviet soldiers in Afghanistan say that Soviet Government is not doing enough to secure the release of POWs.
Recently two prisoners were released by the Mujahideen on humanitarian grounds. The Mujahideen have said that they are ready to exchange prisoners.
***
UK has stated that it will not reopen its embassy in Kabul. France has made the decision to re-open its embassy there. France's action has been criticized by the Mujahideen.
***
The Kabul regime has welcomed the French government's decision to re-open its embassy in Kabul.
***
The UN reporter on the human rights situation in Afghanistan has left for Kabul after a week-long stay in Pakistan.
Dr. Flex Ermacora talked to Pakistani officials and other organizations working for the refugees. He has a mandate to prepare a report for the next session of the human rights .commission of UN.
,***
An Iranian official in charge of Afghan refugees has said that
700.000	Afghan refugees live in Khurasan province, of which
170.000	live in the refugee camps in Baiijand and Qayinat along the border with Afghanistan. The refugees in the camps are provided with food and medical assistance.
k. ,	-	 /