AFGHANews Vol 5, No 2, January 15, 1989, page 6
Evolution of the Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
Part (2)
Daud’s hostile attitude towards Islamists led to confrontation
THE Islamic movement considered Prince Daud a friend of the communists and opposed him even before coming to power as the president of Afghanistan in 1973. Daud’s coup was not welcomed by the Islamic movement but the communist celebrated it as a victory for their cause.
The presidency of Daud marked the beginning of a testing time for the Islamic movement. Hundreds of its followers were jailed and the tension between the movement and Daud led to coup attempts against Daud and finally armed clashes with his regime.
Daud was an ambitious person who was dreaming of 1 a Great Afghanistan’ under his rule. To achieve this he had to oppose the king who was his cousin. To get supporters he established close contacts with leftist movements and was also encouraged by the Soviet leaders who wanted to play on his ambitions and use him for their own strategic ends.
The communist party which wanted to bring revolutionary changes in Afghanistan based on the Soviet model found Daud a suitable partner. He provided the communists with protection and they provided him with personnel on whom he depended to cany out his plans. Their partnership was a marriage of convenience.
The Islamic movement which opposed both Daud and the communist movement was gaining momentum and was becoming organized. This development must have been a source worry for the Soviets, the communist elements in Afghanistan and Prince Daud. As the result of the Islamists activities Communism ideology had lost appeal to the young people. Communist groups faced reaction by the ordinary people due to their anti-religious activities. In the last year of the monarchy, the communist could not hold public meeting in the university campus which they controlled fully some years before.
This situation forced the communist groups to work among the armec. forces and the work took place among the junior officers with little salary and to much work to do. The Afghan Army was equipped and trained by the Soviet Union. It gave the Soviets a golden opportunity to spread communism ideolo-
By Mohammad EsTiaq
gy in the Army. A large number of army officers went to the Soviet Union for training. These people converted to communism. These officers who were members of the communist factions played a key role in engineering consecutive coups and their role in Daud’s coup was very significant. There were non-communist officers who also lelped Daud in his coup because they were for a change and did not know about Daud's close contacts with the communists.
After the coup, the Islamic movement came under pressure. Communists assumed key positions in the government and used their position to promote their cause and suppress the Islamic movement.
Communists were serving as the ears and the eyes of Daud's regime. They warned Daud of the great danger his regime was facing from the Islamic movement. The plan worked and Daud who was not in direct touch with realities, took a tough stand against the Islamic movement.
Daud started to complain in public about the Islamic movement. In a speech on the flag hoisting occasion he said:" There are people who have doubt about my faith (in God). I should say those who do not have faith can not be useful to their country and people."
The next morning Radio Kabul in a commentary said that president Daud meant by faith, faith in revolution and faith in people. This was the interpretation of the communist agents who had infiltrated the government controlled radio.
The little political freedom which was granted by the monarchy ended with the coup. The Communists got a free hand to propagate their ideology under the guise of supporting the new republic. Daud was a prince, with no party and no direct contact with the people. The communists provided him with party anti supporters.
Because of the above developments the Islamic movement lost hope in a peaceful way of struggle and resorted to secret means of opposing Daud and his communist colleagues.
Daud coup showed a short way to power. Since the coup was almost bloodless it seemed the easiest way of achieving revolutionary aims. Since the
communists were sharing power with Daud, the people who tried this method belonged to the Islamic movement or to the nationalists groups.
After the situation was clear and everyone saw the influence of the communist in Daud's regime, the Muslim officers repented their participation in the coup in favor of Daud and became volunteers to act against him.
Most of the coups have little chance of success. The efforts of the Islamic movement met the same end. Hundreds of army officers, students, Islamic scholars and ordinary people belonging to the movement were rounded up and sent to jail.
In jail communists were in charge of interrogations. In addition to physical torture, psychological torture in the form of degradation of Islam was carried out by these officers.
The movement changed tactics after the failure of the planned coup in 1974. It resorted to open armed resistance against the regime. A group of such people headed by Dr. Omar who was later executed by Daud, went to the Keshm district of Badakhshan. 1 was one of those people and the memories of that mission are unforgettable.
The people who had gone to the area were young students of schools and of Kabul University. They had a few thousand Afghanis in cash, a few pistols and some hand grenades.
These people had gone to challenge Daud with an army of 100,000. To ordinary people it seemed like committing suicide but to those people it was a holy mission to be fulfilled. I remember how Dr. Omar recited verses ol Holy Quran to raise the morale of his friends and used example from the history of Islam to remind them of their responsibility.
Despite their good intentions, cleanliness of soul and strong desire to serve their people, they were not ready for such a big mission. They woe few innumber; they did not have enough resources, and people support was in doubt. None of them had any experience in using guns, or real combat experience and even they had not been in military service.
These people were betrayed by lo-
Tum to page ( 3 )