Vol 5, No 4	February	15,1989
Dispute over number of seats adjourns Shoora meeting
3318 days of occupation ends
IN accordance with the Geneva agreement Soviet troops left Afghanistan by February 15. Soviet advisors , however, will remain in the country to support the communist regime.
The last Soviet convoy crossed Salang tunnel on February 11.
As the Soviet troops started leaving, they handed over their positions to the communist regime troops.
Soviets have left behind billions of dollars worth of military installations and equipment
The last days of the Soviet occupation witnessed an escalation of the war. Fighting around the Salang tunnel was heavy. The Soviet used high-altitude bombers and Scud missiles against the Mujahideen.
Soviet Defense Minister came to Kabul to assure the regime of Soviets continued support. The Deputy Prime Minister of Soviet Union also visited the city to assure the regime of economic support.
In the last days of their stay, the Soviets tried to put up a humane face by air-lifting food supplies to Kabul which was facing food shortages.
Najibulla's regime, feeling easy about the departure of the Soviet troops, put Kabul under Martial law on February 4 and issued arms to party members.
Najib's army faces a test. This will be the first time this army will not have the ground support of the Red Army in battle against the Mujahideen.
weapons and ammunition are not a problem for the communists. The Soviet Union has left behind enough and is ready to give more if needed.
But the people cannot eat bullets. Supplies of food for the cities must be
Turn to page ( 4)
THE first meeting of the consultative Shoora opened on February 10 but was adjourned indefinitely after two hours of deliberations. The purpose of the meeting of the 520 member Shoora is to discuss the formi-on of a transitional government to replace Najib's regime and pave the way for holding general elections.
The seven-party Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen decided to form the Consultative Council when it became clear that holding general elections was not possible in the country due to the war situation.
As the deadline for the Soviet troops withdrawal dragged close, the need for an interim administration became increasingly clear.
It was decided that each party should send 60 members to the Council, half of whom are were field commanders. Half of the representatives will come from political workers, Ulama and intellectuals. The choice of thesepeople was left to the parties.
The Supreme Council advised the parties to choose their delegates so that a even representation of all provinces is reflected in the composition of the Council.
The Supreme Council also proposed 20 seats for "Good Muslims" from Kabul, for example , those peole who are still living in Kabul and work with Najibullah government but are not members of the communist party.
A scrutiny committee was formed to check the nominees to determine if the meet the qualifications for membership in the Council.
Sixty seats for the coalition of eight parties in Iran was proposed by the Supreme Council of the Alliance.
The proposed number of seats was not acceptable to the Iran-based coali-
tion. They demanded 120 seats. To bridge the gap, a delegation headed by Hikmatyar went to Teheran. No agreement was reached.
The time set for opening the Shoora was coming close. In a last bid to include the Iran-based parties. Prof. Mojaddidi flew to Teheran on February four. After extensive talks he reached an agreement with the coalition of the Mujahideen based in Iran.
According to this agreement, 100 seats were given to the coalition, in addition to seven ministerial post in a 28-member cabinet of the proposed interim government.
This agreement was not acceptable to the rest of the parties and was rejected.
Prof. Mujaddidi stated that he had got the approval of the Alliance for the deal. His opponents say that they did not approve it.
Because of this dispute the Iran based parties did not participate in the first meeting of Shoora which was opened on Friday afternoon February 10 in Islamabad.
To deal with the new development, the meeting of the Council was adjourned indefinitely.
The spokesman of the Consultative Council said in Islamabad on January 11 that the Alliance was trying to find a solution to this problem so that the Iran-based parties can participate. He said if they decided not to come, the meetings of the . Council would continue.
The parties opposing more seats to the Iran-based parties are afraid that this will becomes a bargaining chip for future claims by the Shia sects in Afghanistan.
The Iran-based parties derive their membership from the Shia community.
Turn to page ( 3 )