flFGWW M£H6 VOL. Ill, NO.1, 1/1/1961 PflGE 0
EUROPEAN COUNCIL STATEMENT
 The following statement was issued following the European council meeting, under the European Presidency of Britain, on Saturday, 6 December 1986:-
 AFGHANISTAN
       - As the seventh year of Soviet occupation comes to a dose, the European Council again draws attention to the very serious situation facing the people of Afghanistan and neighboring countries.
       - Over 110,000 Soviet troops remain in Afghanistan to prosecute a bitter and repressive war. Their presence violates international peace and security and endangers the stability of the region. Five million Afghans have been forced to flee their country. The Afghan people are still denied their freedom and independence. Large scale violations of human rights in Afghanistan continue to engender massive suffering.
       -The European Council supports the United Nations Secretary General's search for a political settlement based on principles overwhelmingly endorsed by the international community. The Council again calls on the Soviet Union to agree to a rapid and complete withdrawal of its forces.
                                        RABBANI VISITS IRAN
 Prof. BJRabbani. leader of Jami at Isiami Afghanistan left Peshawar on December 26 on an official visit of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
 During the visit he will meet the foreign minister of Iran and other high ranking officials of that country. Problems of mutual interest and the later developments in the war in Afghanistan will be discussed.
 Prof. Rabbani will also have an opportunity to meet the Refugees and Mujahideen from the Western parts of Afghanistan. There are more than 1.? million Afghan Refugees in Iran. It is also possible Rabbani will have meetings with the heads of the political parties from the central parts of Afghanistan who have offices in Iran.
 Iran supports the resistance of the Afghan people against the Soviet invaders and believes that participation of Mujahideen in any effort for the solution of Afghan issue is necessary without which no solution can be found.