AFGHANews Vol 6, No 6, March 15,1990, page ©
Americans' interest in Afghanistan declines
The Committee for a Free Afghanistan invited me to go to Washington to talk to the American media and other Organizations and individuals concerned with Afghanistan on the occasion of the first anniversary of the Soviet troops withdrawal on February 15.
I accepted the invitation after consultation with the Jami'at leader. I felt it was a difficult trip because the popularity of the Afghan Resistance was declining in the US and I thought the questions put to me by the journalists would be difficult to answer. I had learned this from talking to some other friends who had accompanied the AIG official delegations to the US recently.
Since I am editing AFGHANews, it was a matter of personal interest to me to gO to the US and see by myself the changes in the Americans' way of thinking about Afghanistan. I had made several trips in the past During the early stages of the war the Afghan Resistance was not taken seriously almost everybody predicted its defeat at the hands of the'powerful Red Army’. Helping the Resistance was a waste of money. 1 had also seen the peak of the Resistance's popularity when everybody considered it an honor to have a picture taken standing beside a freedom fighter. It was a good chance to see the new mode.
After I arrived in Washington, James Baker started his Moscow trip during which he proposed a peace plan which did not interest the Soviet leaders. The withdrawal anniversary and Baker's trip, drew media attention towards our cause and my trip was timed to exploit that development for the benefit, of the Resistance.
Talking to the press
I talked to several journalists individually belonging to some major American papers. Some of these people were quite knowledgeable about Afghanistan because they had been writing about it for some years.
They wanted to know what went wrong with the Mujahideen who could not defeat the Kabul regime? Fortunately during a previous trip in October of 1988, I had talked to the same people and 1 had warned them that the Mujahideen needed time to adjust to the new situation, reorganize themselves and change their tactics.
They asked many questions about die problems of the interim govern-
By: Mohammad Es’haq
ment, infighting between - the Mujahideen, negative symmetry, possible compromise with the Kabul regime etc.
It was obvious that high expectations from the Mujahideen had dbne its damage, the expectations had not been based on facts but wishful thinking.
. In the electronic media only the radio was left to the Mujahideen because for the US TV networks, Afghanistan was not so important that it could compete with the hot news from Eastern Europe and riots in Baku and Dushanbe.
I also met with some journalists and writers who earlier sympathized with the Resistance but find supporting them difficult after the Soviet troops withdrawal. Part of the problem arises from the divisions among the Afghan Resistance parties which demoralized their supporters.
The Soviet and Kabul regime's activities
Die Soviet Union is working hard to lobby for its "Afghan peace plans" among the supporters of the Resistance in America.
The invitation from Congressman Wilson to Moscow is a good example of this effort. Congressman Wilson played an important role in the allocation of funds for the Mujahideen because he is a member of the House Appropriate Committee. When he recently returned from a visit to Moscow at the invitation of the Soviet government he was quoted as saying that the Soviets were in favour of peace in Afghanistan and the Mujahideen should show flexibility.
I talked to the Stanton Group -a conservative support group- about the situation in Afghanistan. This group support anti-communist Resistance movements all over the world. After I had finished a three member Soviet delegation entered the meeting and one of them who called himself a pro-Gorbachev MP talked to the group about the changes in his country. He encouraged Americans to invest in the private sector in the Soviet Union. He impressed some of his American audience.
During my press conference, a gentleman asked me some serious ques tions. I asked him to introduce himself. He said he was the press secretary of
die Soviet embassy in Washington. He asked me what was my main, message tc the Americans? I told him I had come to draw the attention of Americans towards the double-faced foreign policy perused by Gorbachev. In Eastern Europe, he showed tolerance, in Afghanistan he followed the old aggressive policy, minus the presence of uniformed Soviet soldiers. The west should not judge him by his behavior in the Eastern Europe alone they should also pay attention to. the situation in Afghanistan and the negative role that the Soviet Union plays there.
During my stay in Washington I saw how the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime used the Western media to their benefit. If there is any news on American TV it is the news of the Mujahideen rocket attacks on the cities and the horrible sight of some wounded children. If there is any news about the Mujahideen it is about the arguments between the political leaders over holding elections and the future of the AIG. This gives a bad image to the Resistance.
The Resistance have always had a problem to keep the world informed about the true situation in Afghanistan. After the Soviet troops withdrawal the need for positive propaganda is vital to keep the sympathy of the world community on our side. When one of the Mujahideen leaders scares journalists by calling them spies, he inflicts heavy damages on the cause.
Afghan emigres
Afghan emigres who preferred a comfortable life in the West to fighting the Soviet invaders, have become out spoken recently. They criticize both the: Kabul regime and the Mujahideen parties. To them the Kabul regime is responsible for the disastrous situation in Afghanistan. They also criticize the Mujahideen leaders for creating a division among the Afghan people for their political ends. They accuse both sides of being under the influence of foreigners and call themselves the real Afghan patriots. Because of the lack of progress in the battlefield and disunity among the praties an increasing number of people are listening to them particularly as they speak good English. Their anti Mujahideen propaganda could be more harmful to the cause than the Soviet and regime's propaganda.
Turn to page (8)