Vol 4, No 11	Juae	1988
Najib seeks legitimacy
| THE bead of the	1
j puppet regime iu Kabul ! wifi apea.fr at a special j session of tbe UN i General Assembly about j disarmament on June 7.
' Najib s visit to the UN 1 headquarters is designed to | gain legitimacy. The visit | takes plate alter the symbolic withdrawal of Soviet troops which started on May 15.
The General Assembly has been voting lor the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan and the right of : self-determination of Afghan 1 people in the past eight years, j This is Naiib s second trip | after an official visit he paid j to India in the second week of { May.
| Najib has a lot of | expectations from the UN. j After signing the Geneva j agreement, he has asked for ! large sums of money from the j UN for what, he calls the I reconstruction of Afghanistan and the rehabilitation of j refugees who are supposed to j return to Afghanistan, t	This trip. Mujahideen
j believe, is designed to show I that the regime is stable and | could be used as a channel for I giving aid to the refugees.
]	Despite being a puppet
j and controlling, with the help | of Soviets, only 20% of the ! land of Afghanistan, the j regime is a member of the UN. j The membership oi the regime
for any UN relief work inside Afghanistan before the Geneva agreement and al ter it will be an obstacle to any major effort to help in the reconstructing of Afghanistan s economy in the areas controlled by che Resistance.
The UN authorities have been told about the situation by the Resistance and other experts. The UN is now lacing a practical problem and has to find a way to deal with the Resistance despite the membership of tbe regime In the UN,
Najib’s trip is an attempt to gain legitimacy but due to his fading power he will not gain what he may hope.
For practical reasons the regime is not able to do anything beyond the cities and its control is diminishing as the Soviet troops continue to puli out of the country.
Commanders meet in North
THE big annual meeting of the commanders belonging to the Council of the * North is being held to discuss the military situation and approve the military plan for the current year.
SOVIETS ADMIT HEAVY LOSSES IN AFGHAN WAR [
SOVIET casualties in Afghanistan have reached about 50, 000 over the eight years of
occupation.	j
This information was disclosed in Moscow on May 25.According to the Soviet j officials 13,310 soldiers were J killed, 35.57S were wounded j and 311 were missing in j action:	j
The Resistance believes | that the figure of Soviet casualties is much higher than what is officially admitted.
However the source did not give an exact f igure for the casualties of the Soviet troops,
This is the first time that the Soviets have given a figure for their casualties in Afghanistan.
The Soviets invaded Afghanistan with'more than 120,000 troops in 1979 and started to withdraw their I troops in May 15,1988 as part of a deal in Geneva. Since there is not any ceasefire in : effect, the casualties of the j Soviets wilt mount in the nine coming months when they will still be situated in Afghanistan. • .