AFGHANews Vol7, No 21, November 1,1991, page ©
Jami'at leader for serious
Corruption level
negotiations with Moscow
AFGHANews: What was the . AFGHANews: What is the de-
bothers regime's tourism minister
purpose of your recent trip to Tehran?	cision of the Mujahideen about the visit
Rabbani: I was in- -	to Moscow?
vited by the Speaker of	Rabbani:	The
Iranian Parliament to attend HPO|nHI Mujahideen delegation will a seminar on Palestine. L	8° to Moscow on November
also discussed the problems	3.1 have been asked to lead
concerning the visit of a	the delegation. Some parties
Mujahideen delegation to	have appointed their repre-
Moscow with the leaders of	I	sentatives and others will
Hezb-i-Wahdat I discussed K	appoint theirs soon. We
the situation in Afghanistan	have agreed on an agenda
with Foreign Minister Dr.	",	for the talks.
VelayatL	AFGHANews:	Soviets	have	al-
AFGHANews: What is Jami'at ways given the impression that the fate stand on Palestine ?	.	of	their	POWs	will dominate the talks
Rabbani: We support the stnig-. gle of Palestinians to liberate their homeland. The people of Palestine became a victim of Israeli aggression and were driven out of their homes. We, as Muslims and victims of Soviet aggression, support their struggle. We oppose any agreement which deprive the Palestinians from their homeland and their right to live as an independent nation. We regret that the Palestinians were not allowed to have an independent delegation for the Madrid Conference. They are a side in the conflict and should have been able to defend their right The decision that hardliner Shamir will lead the Israeli delegation to the conference casts doubt on a positive outcome from Madrid talks.
AFGHANews: Soviet officials have denied that their foreign minister had proposed replacement of Najib by Mujahideen leader in a coalition government Had they made such a proposal to the Mujahideen?
Rabbani: The Soviet delegation had made such a proposal to the Mujahideen in New York.
AFGHANews: Has the controversy among the Mujahideen over the role of Khaliqyar subsided?
Rabbani: All the Mujahideen parties agree that Khaliqyar cannot play a role in the transitional period because of his past record and current position in the regime.
AFGHANews: What is your opinion about Khaliqyar? Is he a communist?
Rabbani: If Khaliqyar is not a member of PDPA, as the regime claims, he is agent of the Soviet secret service. His secret activities in Herat inflicted a lot damage to the Mujahideen and served the aim of the Soviets and the Kabul regime.
with the Mujahideen. Do you agree with this view?
Rabbani: The issue of POWs, both Soviet and Mujahideen POWs, will play only a marginal role in the talks. We go to Moscow to discuss political issues concerning the Soviet interference in the affairs of Afghanistan.
AFGHANews: The Soviets have said they would stop sending arms to Kabul from first of January, 1992. What other issues do the Mujahideen want to discuss with them?
Rabbani: The main issue is the Soviet support, including financial, military and diplomatic, for the illegal regime of Najib. Prisoners of war of the two sides can also be discussed. There are hundreds of Soviets advisors in Afghanistan supporting the Kabul regime. Soviets have given weapons of mass destruction to Kabul which need to be taken back.
AFGHANews: What is your position on the agreements signed between the Kabul regime and Soviet Union?
Rabbani: The Mujahideen reject all the agreements signed between USSR and the communist regime in Kabul from the start of the April coup of 1987. Any agreement, be it militarily, territorial or economic, signed by the illegal regime in Kabul is null a void.
AFGHANews: What will the Soviet gain from a settlement that dumps Najib and the PQPA?
Rabbani: It will formally end the Soviets involvement in Afghanistan which has brought them a bad name thus improving Moscow's international image. Their prisoners will be released and they will have a peaceful neighbor in their southern border. Afghanistan is a test case for Soviet leaders' commitment to peace.
The Kabul regime Minister of Aviation and Tourism Wadir Safi has accused his ministry's ranking officials of involvement in smuggling and accepting bribe.
. He said the ranking officials of the Aviation Ministry have created groups from their friends and relatives who are smuggling gold in and out of the country. Talking to a western journalist, he said the regime airline. Ary ana, officers posted outside Afghanistan are behaving like Mafia bands.
He alleged that these officials smuggle gold and jewelry and part of profit reaches the ranking Watan Party officials.
The minister said he sacked <jome corrupt officials of the airline working outside, but was pressured to stop taking such actions.
He said taking bribe is common in Intercontinental Hotel of Kabul and added that ranking officials accepted Alcoholic drinks and drugs as bribe, an allegation confirmed by sources inside the Hotel.
He has appointed Younus Safi, one of his relatives, as the new manager of the Hotel This move was dubbed by a so-called independent paper in Kabul as nepotism. He justified his action saying that under the current circumstances one could only appoint a person whom he could trust
4,000 soldiers defend Gardez
Radio Moscow reported that Gardez was defended by 4,000 soldiers under the command of General Ghulam Jan. The Mujahideen believe that there are more soldiers in the besieged city than reported by the Radio Moscow.
Help us publish AFGHANews!
Please send your donations to the following account number:
JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan ____________________