AFGHANews Vol 8, No 10 & 11, June 1,1992, page ©
and Bagram by Jami'at Islami created a crisis for the Kabul regime. Najib tried to escape the country but failed. Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil went to Jabulseraj to talk with commander Masood and agreed to transfer power to the Mujahideen.
Commander Masood then contacted the Mujahideen leaders in Peshawar and informed them about the readiness of the regime to transfer power to the Mujahideen. He asked the leaders to form a government which would be acceptable to all sections of the Afghan society. While Masood forces were in a position to enter Kabul and take charge, he waited at the gates of the city to let the leaders organize the government.
The majority of Mujahideen leaders agreed on an arrangement for transfer of power. Hikmatyar refused to join the other parties and insisted on a military takeover of Kabul. The first attack on Kabul launched by Hezb was repulsed on April 26. Rocket attacks by Hezb some days later left 50 dead and more than 200 injured. Most of the casualties were ordinary people. The attacks spoiled the happy mood in the city and opened the way for massive entry of armed Mujahideen into Kabul from all directions. The Hezb Islami attacks are responsible for the current law and order problems in Kabul.
I accompanied Commander Masood to a meeting with a delegation from the North. They represented the new organization formed under General Dostum and were demanding reasonable representation for their organization. People from Hezb Wahdat, Sayyed Masoor Naderi and General Dostum were included in the delegation. Ironically, the spokesman of the group was Engineer Nasim, the provincial Amir of Hikmatyar’s Hezb in Faryab.
Hikmatyar had instructed Nasim to move from Faryab to Mazar following the fall of the city, and to cooperate closely with Dostum. The delegation showed Masood a letter which Hikmatyar had sent to General Dostum, in which he had called him a hero and had appreciated his role in opposing Najib. Prof. Mujaddidi released this letter to the press some weeks later.
Hikmatyar had expressed support for the uprising of the former militia forces in a speech delivered in Peshawar on the occasion of Us tad Ahmad Zai's memorial service. This speech provoked an angry reaction from Prof. Sayyaf in the same meeting.
Hikmatyar had also written a letter to Sayyed Masoor of Kayan, offering him the command of all Hezb forces in the North.
While Hikmatyar accused the Islamic government in Kabul of being in coalition with the communists, he enjoyed the full support to several ministers of the Najib regime. In his press conference after meeting with General Rafi, vice president of the communist regime, Hikmatyar praised the role of those who opposed the regime and helped the Mujahideen; but it seems they must support only his own party.
The situation in Kabul is improving with the passage of time. More vehicles are on tire road; prices of essential commodities are falling; electricity and water are being
provided to the people and food is available in the market. No queues are seen in front of the bakeries. The decrease in prices of essential commodities have made the people of Kabul optimistic about the future.
The majority of people are happy about the fall of the communist regime and most of them cooperated with the Mujahideen in the first days of transfer of power. The improvement of the TV and radio programs and wearing of Islamic dress by women are approved by die majority of people in Kabul.
During the first days after the transfer of power, incidents of looting of public and private properties took place. The government asked the people to return the stolen properties. This was was ignored.
Although Dostum's men are generally blamed for these incidents, the undisciplined Mujahideen of some other parties, including members of Hezb Islami, were to blame for many cases of looting. Score of city buses were stolen, some of which can be seen operating in Jalalabad.
Despite the presence of tens of thousands of armed Mujahideen, belonging to different groups, in Kabul, the law and order situation is generally good. But the presence of so many aimed Mujahideen in Kabul is a potential threat to security and stability of the capital.
It seems that the political,parties want to use the presence of their aimed men to gain concessions from the interim government. There is also a danger that these forces might be used to expand the influence of their own parties and to contain the influence of their rivals.
Since all the Mujahideen are fed by the government, it is a huge economic burden on the country. To free the city from disorganized armed Mujahideen, it is necessary to create an Islamic army and police as soon as possible. It seems that some political parties within the government are not fully cooperating in creating such a force.
The saddest thing that I witnessed after my arrival in Kabul was the ethnic realignment of the population. It seems that the problems within the regime have affected the way of thinking of some people. This is indeed an unhappy development. It must be discouraged so that the national unity of the country is not affected. But short-sighted politicians continue to exploit these feelings for their immediate interests.
The physical shape of the city had changed little in 17 years. The only achievements of Daud and the communists were the construction of two buildings, one 14 story and the other 18 story high, in the center of the city. The dty had expanded but sewage facilities had noL The poor parts of the city were more dirty than before.
The Mujahideen had announced an amnesty for the former members of the regime, Except for a few cases of assassination, there were no reprisal attacks against the former members of the regime. The announcement by some Mujahideen leaders that they would form a revolutionary court alarmed members of the former regime. The leaders tried to calm the people by saying that there would be no arbitrary arrests and
summary trails. So far, this court has not been formed.
The casual dress and way of life of the new rulers of Afghanistan is a strange thing for most Afghans, especially the residents of Kabul. They had been wrongly taught to think that the rulers should wear special clothes and lead a life different from that of ordinary people.
The new -leaidership, despite their shortcomings, come from the grass roots level. For the first time in the history of Afghanistan, the leaders have emerged from among ordinary people. This is a good thing because the leaders are in a position to know about tte problems of the people. Such a leadership has the potential to create a political system which has the natural support of the people, leaving no room for die imposition of politicians from above.
Returning to Kabul was an occasion for reunion with friends and families. Many of our cousins needed to be introduced to me, and I was introduced to them. Meeting friends and family created emotional scenes and revived the memory of the past—a time when the country was peaceful.
In Kabul, I met with some diplomats, foreign reporters, UN and 1CRC workers, Most of them were happy that the Mujahideen had succeeded but seemed worried about their own security. They were uneasy about the presence of a large number of aimed Mujahideen in the streets, hotels and offices. In die meantime, they appreciated lack of reprisal attacks on officials of the former regime.
Some journalists seemed unhappy about the Mujahideen's decision to close the bars at the hotels and destroy stocks of alcoholic drinks. But the more realistic said that it was the correct decision far the people who had fought under the banner of Islam for more than a decade. They have a right, argued To meet my family I had to go to Panjshii. From Kabul to Jabulseraj, I flew in an Ml-8 Helicopter which was taking supplies to the army unit stationed there.
This was my first experience to flying in a helicopter. During die years of Jehad, I hated helicopters a lot I discovered that it could be a useful thing once in the hands of friendly people. Helicopters, played a key role in the defense of Kabul by bringing in supplies and men to boost the defense of die city during the first days of transfer of power.
The people of Panjshir face tremen dous problems. Despite the fall of prices in Kabul, prices of essential goods were high in the valley. High transportation costs are a major factor in this regard.
The people of the valley also suffer from the threat of landmines. People and their animals are still being killed. Despite enormous publicity, the UN has not sent a survey team to die valley to assess the problem. Panjshir is perhaps the most heavily mined area in Afghanistan.
Only old men and women' lived in Panjshir. Young men were involved in the protection of Kabul and other cities liberated recently.
To be continued