AFGHAN NEWS
2-7-1985
P-37
No. 10
16-5-85
                           BADAKHSHAN _ PRO VINCE (This report reached us after 25 days)
 Tha enemy forces,, mostly Russians, launched an offensive on Payan-shahr of Baharak District of Badakhshan. The report says that the forces attacked the lower part of the Baharak via the government road and Eamdara. The offensive lasted for 18 hours in which Mujahideen were able to push back the enemy, The report adds that during the fighting, Jalili the communist director of the Khad along with 9 other Khad members were killed* A Mujahid was injured in this fighting.
 19-5-85
 A Russian passenger plane carrying 96 party members, including 9 Russians, was shot down at Faizabad. All 96 were reportedly killed*
 In retaliation the Russian forces air raided the villages of Paizabad with MIGs and helicopters, as a result of which at least two villages were totally destroyed.
 27-4f-85
 An active group Commander Faizurahman Faez, along with 1k other Mujahideen were killed due to the explosion of a communication set which was filled by the enemy with highly powerful explosives. The report says that after the Russians defeat in an operation against Mujahideen, they withdraw and leave behind a booby-trap kike this communications set. Mujahideen take that set as booty and while 20 are busy operating the mentioned set it explodes, killing 14 Mujahids and injuring the rest.
 Faez was reportedly a very active and beloved group commander,
 22:5-85
 A strategically importa government post at Katta Khurman was totally captured by Mujahideen and about 20 militias along with three sergeants were killed, the rest, about “\k were captured alive.
 Four Mujahids were killed while 1+ others were injured during the operation.
                          BAGHLAN PROVINCE 30-5r85                  "     ..........
 The. latest report from Baghlan province indicates that a large number of Russian-Karmal troops with a number of tanks and APCs of which the total was estimated to be 500, and with the protection of several combat aircraft and helicopter gunships, moved from its strong base in Dashti Kilagai -towards Nahrin District. After a few days of concentration in Nahrin the military division No. 20 (located about 3 km in the east part of the city on top of a strategic hill) launched their offensive in the city and the surrounding areas of the mentioned division.