flFPHFH 1EM9 VOL. Ill, HO. 14, 15/7/ 19®7 PAGE 10----------------------------i
 very rapidly. This fact represents a permanent crisis for the Soviet Nationalities Policy The Kremlin faces two irreconcilable policy directives: Muslims must be assimilated into the upper levels of the Soviet Russian system to avoid a 'worsening of colonial appearances., by the same token, these same Muslims are too sceptical and nationalistic to be drawn into the system.
 Culturally, Sovietization and Russification have made little headway in Turkestan The repeated alphabet changes and demands to "internationalise" Turkestani culture have brought about only cosmetic changes. The elementary fact is that Turkestani culture is
 extremely self-contained.
 Nevertheless, the cutting edge of Russian dominance in the empire’s cultural policy can be felt in the linguistic sphere. Pressure to speak Russian and to neglect local « languages is intense. But Turkestani intellectuals, and even local party members are. today fighting the cutbacks in local language instruction and literary study Consider the renowned author Chingiz Aytmatov s recent statements to Literaturnaya Gazeta in which he said The immortality of a people lies in its language. Every language is great -for its own people Each of us has the filial duty to the people which have given birth and presented us with our greatest vealth-our own language. A duty to preserve its purity and to multiply its riches Aytmatov^ statement is the self-respecting, proud voice of nationalism and sense of defiant self-assertion.
 The Afghan problem is still unsolved. Since September 1979 the Red Amy in Afghanistan hes killed more than a million innocent men, women end children, destroyed 60% of all villages, 4 million refugees escaped from torture to Pakistan and Iran, leaving behind their beloved homeland. Today. 39% of the world's surface has been occupied by communism and 42% of the world population is communist or controlled by force. You are all well aware of communist infiltration in Asia *he Middle East, Africa and Central America for example Nicaragua right cm the doorstep of the United states. To keep the germ of communism out of the American hemisphere we should give aid to the Nicaraguan Freedom fighters.
 ¥e Turkestanis strongly condemn the Soviet Russian government's handling of the Chernobyl nuclear catastrophe in Ukraine, by keeping it secret for many days from their own citizens. This is one of their usual methods.
 Peace in the Vest means to live in harmony, justice and equality. But peace in communist terms means more occupation, more human blood and more genocide. By talking and sending their peace missionaries to the Vest, the communists are deceiving the Vest. If they really mean peace, they should get out of Afghanistan and all the other subjugated nations and practice communist ideology on their own territory.
 The time has come for a united front to stand up, in one unison against the enemy of God, Freedom and liberty. I pray to God to give us strength and courage to speak out for those innocent people who are living behind the Iron Curtain and hoping to see the
 fall of the Russian empire.
!                  are irurLrgfPfVKamfg
                    I THE NEW PHONE NUMBER OF THE POLITICAL COMMITTEE : OF JAM! AT I SLAM I OF AFGHANISTAN WILL BE 401 10
' FROM JULY 15TH, 1987 ;  
                          
