AFGHANews Vol7, No 4, February 15,1991, page ©
Kabul, resistance accused of Human Rights abuses
The US State Department reports a relative improvement in the human-rights situation in Afghanistan during 1990.
The annual report of the State Department which was presented to the Congress says that there were less cases of human rights violations in Afghanistan last year.
Since the US does not have an embassy in Kabul, the report is based on information gathered by unofficial sources.
The report says prisoners are still being tortured in Afghanistan, but to a lesser degree than in the past Since 1978, more than five million Afghans have taken refuge outside their country and conditions have not improved enough to for them to return to their country. Bombing of the populated areas controlled by the Mujahideen continued in 1990. The regime's aerial bombing from high altitude, artillery fire and firing of SCUD and other ground-to-ground missiles left many civilians dead.
The report says the two sides in the conflict have killed POWs on the battlefield.
The report says the Kabul regime
cooperated with a number of organizations concerned with the human rights situation. ICRC delegations were allowed to visit prisons; the UN special rapporteur on human rights visited Kabul, and Asia Watch was allowed to send a representative to Kabul.
In 1990, ICRC and some journalists were allowed to visit some Afghan and Soviet prisoners held by the Mujahideen.
New York-based Asia Watch, which studies the human rights situation in Asia, has published its 1990 report on the situation in Afghanistan. The report says despite the Kabul regime’s announcements of freedom of speech and gatherings, Afghans have not been able to test this freedom.
Asia Watch says it has received reports of torture of detainees in Kabul. The reports says the Kabul regime takes armed militias out of their areas to fight the Mujahideen. These militias have looted the property of returning refugees in Faryab, Badghis and Kandahar and have forced their young men to serve in the regime army.
Asia Watch is also critical of violations of. human rights by some Mujahideen groups.
Khalis opposes!
|||
• Mawt^wi.the] Interior MimStier of AlC*, rejected die rumors of	Toddiaron
Jalalabad road for commercial pur-
University of Deception
Akhbar-i-Hafta (Weekly News), published in Kabul, writes that the opening of Balkh University in 1988 was designed to deceive the people of the north, because it has no facilities and no experienced teachers.
Balkh University was established in 1988 in Mazar-i-Sharif. It has four faculties - engineering, agriculture; economics and literature. A block of the technical school of Mazar, which has 60 rooms, houses classrooms, teachers and their families, a hostel, a library and the University's storerooms. There are 150 male and female students in Balkh University who live in dormitories scattered in three different places. Sixteen students live in each room, sleeping on the floor. Student hostels are overcrowded too and the bathrooms are in appalling condition.
The University is plagued by nepotism and ethnic problems. The students have complained to the authorities in Kabul about their problems but with no result
the paper asks why the authorities opened a university without thinking about the facilities it needs. The paper includes that from the condition Of
hi
Balkh University one must conclude that the idea behind it was to deceive people.
The paper reports an incident involving the chancellor of Balkh University in which he beat and bruised several doctors and nurses of Balkh hospital who had failed to save the life of his son.
According to the paper, the chan cellor's son was admitted to hospital and underwent an appendix operation. The operation was successful but hours later the child's condition deteriorated and despite attempts by the doctors to save him, he died.
The chancellor was furious over the death of his son. He started to beat several medical staffers whom he blamed for the loss of his beloved child. He Injured and bruised severai doctors and nurses and with his armed body-guards even attacked the house oi the doctor who had carried out the operation. The frightened doctors and nurses went on strike to draw the atten tion of the authorities in Mazar. They were promised justice, but the paper says the chancellor was never even questioned about what he did.
SUugiliiti safaris
■	Akhbar^Hafta. a weeldy pjipet]
published	reports that nu-|
melons hi^bfik^ the Kjtfadfe*|
gill: ihbibshii sn
Russia	fibbers	|
smuggling purposes. The practice b so widespread that it has become semNegat	■
■	According to the paper* Afghan
opt^S|p^||
the road ^$$|e Sl|immet|i8| j play Into the hands of the regime and! will be interpreted asvictoty for thej so-called national reconciliation pofi-l cy of l&bnh He added, that] Mujahideenag^St the ling of the highway at this stage bel cause it will benefit ;tifce:'^hne"eqiH nominally. The regime will collect] millions rtf dollar as import and export taxes on the conunodities. ft wiB hlSO:
I Afghani bank notes and get valuable | foreign exchange ln£|||^ opening of the highway will facilitate infiltration Of KHAD KGB 0ie$: into Pakistan and the sending of arms IfSr terrorist activities.
I from the tribal areas arb trying topeif buade the Mt^(^ tp: open the;
iKi	.	.	.	■
from the high officials* indulge in
undertake two or three or even four
■•.W.VMWV^V.W.S]
This has severely affected their studies and has made some of them! very rich- If h said that some $tu-
Condolence |i|ss!|p|
111®!
, :n&g^ne'; lurvd
I condoled with the President and
I Prime Minister of Pakistan over the
I deathsof tnbre than 200 people id