AFGHANews Vol 6, No 14, July 15,1990, page ©
News
From The Battlefields
Parwan Province
The Mujahideen from the Supervisory Council captured six posts, destroyed 14 tanks and trucks and set on fire one jet fighter and killed many enemy soldiers when they launched attacks on them in several places along the Salang highway on June 27, HINA reported.
The Mujahideen captured six security posts of the regime in the Salang Valley. The soldiers stationed in the posts whose numbers are not known were captured.
Several other posts were also attacked and heavy losses were inflicted on the enemy soldiers.
An enemy supply convoy was attacked in Totom Dara at the mouth of Ghorband Valley. Fourteen tanks and trucks were set on fire. The column of smoke rising from the burning vehicles could be seen from miles away.
The enemy- position in Qala-i-
Surkh at the mouth of the Salang valley
and Bagram Air Base were attacked
with heavy weapons. One jet plane was
hit on the ground in Bagram and the
enemy suffered heaw casualties in Qala-i-Surkh.
The Mujahideen clashed with enemy forces in Do Saraka Bagram, inflicting heavy losses on them.
The Mujahideen also attacked the enemy garrison in Deh-Sabs, killing 17 soldiers and three officers and wounding nine soldiers. Two armored cars were also destroyed.
The enemy retaliated by aerial bombardment bf the liberated areas which caused casualties among people but no detail was immediately available. Several harvests were set on fire.
A a result of the operation, the Salang highway was closed for at least two days. Fighting was still continuing while this story was filed.
People coming from Kabul have reported that the enemy has fired heavy rockets into the villages in Panjshir valley. No information is available about the casualties.
Herat Province
A Mujahideen commander who had joined the Kabul regime some time ago re-joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at on June 26 with 40 of its men, Jami'at Afzali Front reported.
He brought with him the following weapons:
•Two tanks
•Four armored cars
•Three trucks
•One 76mm howitzer
•One ZPU machine-gun (14-6mm)
•Seven mortars
•Seven P-K machine-gun
•100 light weapons.
A source from the Afzali Front to which the group has joined said Commander Ahmad Seddique had joined the regime with the Mujahideens' agreement
The Mujahideen from the Afzali Front also killed Saifu, a militia commander of the regime in Enjeel District on May 25.
Two militiamen were killed and two wounded in a clash with the Mujahideen in Sardustan village of Enjeel on June 7.
Seven militiamen including a commander were killed in fighting with the Mujahideen in Sardustan village of Enjeel on June 20.
One militia leader and eight soldiers were killed on June 25 when the truck carrying them hit a landmine planted by the Mujahideen in Guzara District.
Kabul Province
Commander Mullah Ezat has summed up the casualties of both sides in Paghman fighting from the begin-
ning of tiie current year as follows:
-More than 1,000 regime soldiers and militiamen have been killed and more than 2,000 have been wounded.
-Thirty tanks and trucks of the regime have been destroyed.
-The regime has lost six jets.
- Ninety Mujahideen were killed and 220 injured.
The Mujahideen from different parties have participated in the operations against the regime. In the last one and half months the level of fighting in Paghman has been very high.
In addition to regime regular forces, militiamen belonging to Rashid Dostom, Gelam Jam and Sayed Kay an have been involved.
The Kabul regime has intensified its campaign against the Mujahideen in Paghman, 20 kilometers west of Kabul, to drive them out of the valley.
Although the enemy has captured part of the area it has failed to drive the Mujahideen out.
The Mujahideen from Paghman launch attacks against the regime's installations in Kabul.
Paktia Province
The Mujahideen shot down a transport plane of the communist regime in Khost on June 26, a Mujahideen source reported.
Khost garrison town besieged by the Mujahideen for more than one year is supplied by air.
Commander killed in Pewshwar
Mualim Din Mohammad, the Ittihad-i-Islami deputy commander in Kunduz Province, was killed by unknown gunmen in Jalozai refugee camp near Peshawar on June 27, MEDIA reported.
Din Mohammad, 35, started Jehad against the communist regime before the Soviet invasion. -He had come to Peshawar recently to visit his family who live as refugees in Pakistan.
Recently, some other important personalities 6f Jehad have been killed by unknown people. They include Commander Payenda Mohammad from Ittihad-i-Islami (Prof. Sayyafs party). Commander Shariatyar from Hezb Islami Hikmayar and Zahir Khatibi from Jamiat Islami. No arrests have been made in connection to above cases.