   AFGHAN NEWS____YQLOI_____NO. 21  1/11/1986    PAGES
                           ATROCITIES IN THE STREETS OF KABUL :
 The last uieek of September was witness to a tragic event in Kabul. A toHi driver was kicked to death by puppet army officers in daylight before one hundred people.
 Mohammad flnwer a Ponjshfri tani driver of obout 55 years old was driving when an army truck bound to Qorgha Division hit his car and partially damaged it. The poor driver who had escaped death was angry and protested to the soldiers why they were not driving carefully. Four Porchamy officers and some soldiers started to kick the old man until his stomach was cut. The poor mand died soon after.             '
 This is Just on ettompie. These events repeat themselves everyday In the enemy controlled cities and along the highways. The killers are ' either Soviets or their puppets and those who are killed are always poor, defenceless Afghans.
                        HOW DO WE SUFFER FROM ONE-SIDED REPORTING
 The publicised withdrawal ceremonies of 8,000 Soviet troops have ended. The Soviets invited a large number of Western Journalists to report the event. Once again the cunning leader ot the Russian empire manipulated the world moss media for deception of world opinion. Photographers, journalists and cameramen reported the events in detail.
 That Is all they could see and report. They did not hove the opportunity to see thousands of deserted end destroyed villages outside the perimeter of the Soviet control. They wore not even shown the torture and enecution center in PuiH-Chorkhi jail where thousands of Afghans ere kept in a very bad conditions.
 These respectable guests did not have the chance to accompany Soviet troops when they operated against Mujahideen and the civilian population of Afghanistan. Neither were they Invited when the new Soviet troops were brought ln.( Soma weeks before the so-colled withdrowol of 8,000 men the Soviets brought in 15,000 more troops but did not invite anybody to witness it), nil this shows that stories that these journalists bring out of the Soviet ccrtroiled zones one one-sided and distorted. The one-sided and distorts 3 story of the withdrawal ceremonies Is harmful te the just cause rf the Afghan Notion and o form of assistance to the invaders.
 Uery few of these respective reporters take the risky trip to cover the other side of the war, the Mujahideen side. From a business point of view covering this side of the conflict is not appealing to them. Mora than that the trip is physically harsh end the threat of Soviet attacks and being branded as a CIA agent if they wore captured, is always a threat.