AFGHANews Vol5, No 12, June 15,1989, page Q
■-----------------------------------------------------------------1
Editorial
......... - -
No stalemate, no need to change policy
The news media have reported about a possible change in US and Pakistan policy regarding the Afghan problem.
It is said that Pakistan Government will emphasize more on a political solution of the problem rather than a military option.
The news of opposition of some members of US Congress to the continuation of arms supply to the Mujahideen are also reported.
It was predicted that the Afghan issue would be on the top the agenda in discussions between the Prime Minister of Pakistan and the US President
The reports about the change of Afghan policy came when the efforts of the Mujahideen to liberate Jalalabad did not succeed and the media reported a stalemate military situation in the country.
The situation in Jalalabad and the fact that four months after the Soviet Hoops withdrawal the Mujahideen did not achieve a major military victory has given credit (o this view that die Mujahideen are hot able to defeat the Kabul regime militarily. Therefore, a political solution must be sought to end the crisis.
The idea of a political solution to the problem is very old. Both sides of the conflict have stated their desire to find a political solution but the interpretation of each side from a political solution is different.
To the Mujahideen, a political solution means transfer of power from the communist regime to a broad-based government which the Mujahideen are the principle part of. This government will have a temporary nature and will hold elections for a permanent setup.
This view of the Mujahideen is supported by their international supporters who want to see the interim government as broad-based as possible.
To the Russians and the communist regime in Kabul, a political solution is power sharing between the regime and the resistance. They are for direct negotiations with the resistance and an international conference to guarantee the non-aligned status of Afghanistan.
The Kabul regime is not ready to give up power and the Mujahideen are not ready to share power with the regime. The role of PDPA in the future is the central issue in the conflict
The Mujahideen have said they will never deal with the regime. This was the reason for the deadlock in the negotiations between the Mujahideen and the Soviets.
Although the idea of searching for a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan can not be rejected, if the efforts are based on the assumption that a military stalemate prevails on the battlefields, it could lead to unwanted consequences.
The Jalalabad episode should not be used as measuring stick for the military situation in Afghanistan. This area has never been a good example for organized armed struggle in the ten years of war.
To understand the situation one should take into accounts the heterogeneous nature of different fronts. One has to be very careful in drawing general conclusion from studying a specific area because it may not apply to other areas.
Militarily, the Jalalabad campaign was successful to a large extent The city was besieged, its supply lines were cut, heavy casualties were inflicted on the enemy and more important fighting against the enemy still continues.
The real disaster came from the way die propaganda side of die campaign was managed. The tall claims of some political leaders created confusion. They gave the impression that the war was easy and victory was close.
There is no stalemate situation all ova- Afghanistan. As each day passes the
regime's difficulties increase. Different Mujahideen fronts are completing their preparations for large scale attacks. The Fighting season has just started and very soon the level of fighting will increase.*
Therefore, any change in the policy of the supporters of the Mujahideen based on the assumption that there is a stalemate in the battlefield is premature and based on false assumptions.
Fortunately the Pakistan and US leaders did the right thing. Their leaders renewed their support for Afghans in their struggle for self-determination. The two sides stressed die need for a political solution to the issue and asked the Kabul regime to step down in favor of a broad-based government
The Geneva accord and the UN resolutions ask for the right of self-determination of Afghans in addition to the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan. Fortunately the first objective has been achieved but the fundamental issue of the right of Afghans to determine their future has still remained unsolved.
It is the moral duty of peace-loving countries especially those who signed the Geneva accords to help Afghans to determine their future. If peaceful means fail to achieve the aim, they should help the Mujahideen to do it militarily.
For Pakistan and Iran, the solution to the Afghan problem is very important. If peace does not come to Afghanistan, refugees can not return and the region will be exposed to the threat of war.
Those who favor a change in American policy towards Afghanistan should see the other side of problem as well. What has the Soviet Union been doing since February IS, the day when their troops left Afghanistan?
That country has left large quantities of military and non-military supplies to the regime and continues to send more; has kept its military advisors in Afghanistan; has bombed the Mujahideen position by planes flown from the bases inside the Soviet Union and has actively supported the regime in international forums. Under these circumstances, talking of cutting supplies to the Mujahideen is leaving the defenseless Afghans to the communist criminals who are well armed and have no mercy on anyone including the women and children.
Afghans started their war without assurance of foreign aid. For them die struggle to self-determination is a necessity not a luxury. With aid or without it, they will fight and firmly believe in their final victory.
i