Vol 7, No 7
April 1,1991
Prof.Rabbani's security guard killd in blast
One Afghan Mujahid was killed and one was seriously injured when a bomb exploded at the guard post outside the residence of Jami'at leader Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani in •’eshawar on March 21.
The bomb exploded at 9:00 P.M., blowing up the guard room of the residence near Arbab Road, University Town.
One of the guards, Sayyed Jamal of Badakhshan, died on the spot while Abdul Halim, another guard, was injured. The injured was admitted to Al-Fawzan hospital and it is said that he is out of danger.
The device, a time-bomb weighing about two kilograms, had been placed beneath the elevated floor of the guard room. Window panes of neighboring houses were broken by the explosion. Police and Jami'at officials have started an investigation but so far no arrests have been made. A Jami'at official said the saboteurs might have planted the mine under the guard room during the rain storm earlier in the day, so that the guards would not notice it.
The number of casualties could have been much higher if the people attending congregational prayers in the nearby mosque had been passing at the time of the explosion.
A Jami'at source said the Kabul regime is behind the incident and it was aimed at physical elimination of Prof. Rabbani and his Mujahideen. Prof. Rabbani was praying in his residence at the time of the explosion.
The xxplosion coincided with the start of the new Afghan year, when the Mujahideen are busy preparing to launch attacks on the enemy inside Afghanistan. The explosion was also aimed at creating tension between the Mujahideen and local Pakistanis. Fortunately no Pakistanis were hurt in the incident
The Mujahideen have achieved some major victories in the Khost operation, which was launched on March 13 and still continues.
In operations around Khost the Mujahideen from all parties have taken part The war is conducted by the local council of commanders, which is composed of 23 people.
So far, the Mujahideen have captured a number of security posts around the city and are in control of the old airport. A large number of regime troops have been killed or wounded but the exact figure is not available.
The purpose of the current operations is to tighten the siege around Khost and then capture it. The first aim has been achieved to a large extent
Jaji Maidan District on the Pakistan border, and Shaik Amir, Yaqoubi and Bak sub-districts were freed from regime's control. The Jaji Maidan garrison played a key role in supplying Khost with food smuggled from Pakistan.
Road links betwen Khost District, 160 kilometers southeast of Kabul, and the rest of the country have been cut since the autumn of 1985. The city has been supplied by air. When the Mujahideen captured the strategic post of Toorghar, overlooking the Khost airport, last year, the Kabul regime built a new airport which was out of the range of Mujahideen guns.
The Mujahideen have reported shooting down two helicopters and destroying two fixed-wing planes parked at the airport. They also destroyed the local radio'station and set on fire a fuel dump.
The Mujahideen are using ground-to-ground rockets and captured tanks against the regime. In order to persuade the defenders of Khost to surrender, the Mujahideen have announced a general amnesty for defecting soldiers.
The Kabul regime, while admit-
ting having lost some parts of Khost, has said it will send reinforcements to the area. Regime jets have pounded suspected positions of the Mujahideen with cluster and incendiary bombs dropped from high altitude.
The Kabul regime has also fired more than 40 SCUD missiles at Mujahideen positions. SCUD missiles were used by Iraq in the Gulf war. The Mujahideen also are faced with minefields planted by the regime.
Casualties are uncertain on both sides. Hundreds of families from Khost have become refugees in Pakistan.
The Soviet Union and Kabul regime have charged that Pakistan's armed forces are involved in the fighting around Khost. The regime has protested to Pakistan and has asked the UN Secretary General to intervene.
Pakistan and the Mujahideen have rejected the allegations by Kabul and Moscow, and Commander Haqqani has asked foreign journalists and representatives of UN to visit the area to see for themselves that the claims of the Kabu regime are baseless.
As may be seen, the Khost operation is not coordinated with operations in other, parts of Afghanistan. But the Mujahideen are doing better in the propaganda field than the past They have wisely avoid giving false hopes of a quick victory. The world media's lack of interest in Afghanistan has had a positive effect of keeping expectations of a quick victory low.
Jami'at leader Prof. Rabbani has congratulated the Mujahideen of the Khost front for their achievements and has praised their courage.
Liberation of Khost would boost the morale of the Mujahideen, and might lend new momentum to the armed struggle of the Mujahideen against the Kabul regime.