Editorial
UN aid policy biased towards Kabul regime
The recent UN relief operation via the Kabul regime has created doubts about the impartial role of the UN as a peace-maker. The UN Secretary General should take immediate steps to correct the situation.
The relief coordinator has a mandate to provide assistance to all Afghans, and the aid should be distributed in such a way that no side in the conflict can exploit it for their political ends.
The UN has done very little to help the millions of Afghans living in the liberated areas. These are the neediest people, and they have suffered for a decade. The UN activities in liberated areas have been limited to sending survey missions and doing preliminary work.
Salaam Express, bringing supplies through the Soviet Union to regime- controlled areas, renders UN assistance unbalanced and biased towards the regime.
Making use of the media reports which describe the food situation in the regime-controlled cities as very grave, the UN coordinator has decided to take food and other relief goods to these cities.
But the real reason behind these food shortages has not been taken into account. Food shortages last year and propaganda about a possible shortage in the j'uture are the result of deliberate Kabul regime policy, based on Soviet advice. Its goal is to defame the Mujahideen, to boost the image of the Soviets as humane x>wer concerned about well-being of Afghans, and to get assistance from UN, so they can divert their own resources to military purposes.
Why has the UN done nothing to relieve the suffering of millions of Afghans iving in liberated areas of Afghanistan during the years of occupation? Why it is not making a serious effort to help needy people in these areas now? Their suffering may not be reflected by the international media, but one can not deny that their needs are the greatest Reports of severe food shortages in central, northeastern and northwestern Afghanistan have already reached the UN.
When the UN first decided to give relief assistance to the Afghans it trod carefully. Survey teams were sent to the liberated areas and Mujahideen leaders were consulted about relief projects in Afghanistan,
The recent UN decision to send relief workers inside, without prior consultation with Mujahideen leaders, signals a change of attitude towards the resistance. Perhaps the inability of the Mujahideen to defeat the Kabul regime is the main reason behind this change.
The UN authorities should be more foresighted. They should not get the wrong impression from a temporary stalemate on the battlefield. They should not assume that the regime now has die upper hand in the fighting, and that it is safe to work for Kabul without attending to the Mujahideen and people living under their control.
Though the UN can work with regime more easily because of Kabul's UN membership, and though the Soviet Union is helping the UN give assistance to the regime, the UN's mandate is to search for peace. It should avoid doing anything which will harm its reputation as an impartial body working toward that end.;
Salaam Express was launched without the advice of the people who had led survey missions into the liberated areas, and who have been advising Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan on Afghanistan.
The personal ambitions of some people in the coordinator's office could be a factor behind this hasty decision.
We are not against helping poor people, no matter where they live. But we
Turn to page (5 )
November 1,1989, page Q
Holding polls
Dr. Fazlullah
The following is the text of an interview with Dr. Fazullah, general commander of Jami'at Islami in Logar province. Abdul Basir, AFGHANews reporter, talked to him some weeks ago at his base in Logar province.
Q -How are Jami'at relations with other parties in Logar?
A- There is understanding and cooperation amongst us.
Q- What are the factors which help the survival of the regime?
I
A- The regime survives mainly on heavy bombardment, long range artillery fire, using cash to infiltrate the Mujahideen and confusing the world opinion through propaganda.
Q- The world expected the fall of Kabul in one week; why didn't it fall?
A- It was over-optimism, but Kabul will definitely fall.
Q- What is your position on Farkhar killing of Jami'at commanders?
A- We condemn it. Those who have done it, we consider them murderers, and they must be punished.
Q- People expect you to capture Logar within a month. Can you?
A- It depends on the military circumstances and cooperation among different parties.
Q- Can elections be held in
Afghanistan?
A- Under the present conditions it is not practical.
Q- What is the way out of the present situation?
A- All the Mujahideen forces should get around the strongest force in Afghanistan and form a united front.