AFGHANews Vol7, No 2, January 15, 1991, page Q
Iran’s envoy in Islamabad speaks to Al-Jehad
Jawad Mansoori, Iran Ambassador in	Al-Jehad: There is no doubt that the refugees continue to enter Iran. Some refu-
Islamabad, gave an interview to Al-Jehad, Kabul regime exists, but does Islam permit gees who returned to Afghanistan from an Arabic magazine. The interview was the Mujahideen to involve criminals in the Pakistan some time ago became refugees published in the 72nd issue. Here is the full political settlement of Afghan problem? in Iran in search for work or because of text:	Mansoori:	The Mujahideen need the harsh conditions in Afghanistan.
Al-Jehad: Please throw some-light on support of the Afghan people for their polit- Al-Jehad: These people enter Iran the Islamic Republic's policy towards the ical activities. The Kabul regime now from Pakistan secretly. If they are caught Afghan issue.	claims that it has the support of a section of by Iranian border police or Revolutionary
Mansoori: The Islamic Republic has the Afghan people. This indicates that the Guards, they will be imprisoned or ex-always opposed the occupation of Islamic political activities of the Mujahideen have pelled. Why aren't Afghans allowed to en-tenitories by foreigners. Based on this prin- failed to disprove the claims of the Kabul ter Iran openly and legally? ciple, we opposed the occupation of regime. Anyway, we reject Marxist regimes Mansoori: The Islamic Republic, de-Afghanistan by the Soviet Union because based on our Islamic beliefs and consider spite the great difficulties it is facing, has Afghanistan was not only an Islamic coun- them tyrannic and and-Islamic. If elections given refuge to two million Afghans. Are try but a neighbor of Iran as well.	are held in Afghanistan and all people take other Islamic countries, with no such diffi-
We are very pleased by the victory of part in it, the people of Afghanistan, natu- culties as Iran, ready to accept 100,000 Afghan people over a superpower which rally, will vote for the Muslims and will re- Afghan refugees? Is the US, with all its had occupied their country. The Islamic ject Marxists. This would bring a great po- claims of friendship with the Afghans, Republic, despite many problems it has litical victory for the Mujahideen.	ready to allow 100,000 Afghan refugees to
been facing, has helped Afghans a lot in Al-Jehad: Who should supervise elec- settle in America?
the past eleven and half years. We want to dons in Afghanistan?	Al-Jehad:	It is Said that Iran give as-
see Afghanistan to return once more to the Mansoori: A delegation from the UN, sistance to only Shia parties and there is ev-rank of independent, nonaligned and die Islamic conference or a combined dele- idence to show that this view is correct. Islamic countries and to have good relations gation from the two can do the job. The What is the reason for such a policy? with its neighbors.	Mujahideen can ask the UN to form a dele- Mansoori: Iran does not take into con-
The Islamic Republic believes that gation from its Islamic countries' members. sideration the Sunni and Shia factors in its there is a need that the Mujahideen should Al-Jehad:	Many	Mujahideen and foreign policy. Its policy is designed to pro-
make their decisions independently. While Afghan refugees complain about the way tect Muslims as a whole. For example, we Iran does not interfere in the internal affairs Iranian security organizations treat them, support the people of Palestine, Kashmir of Afghanistan, it asks others to do the They cannot freely move from one city to and other Muslim nations who are not Shia. same. We only gave advice to the the other, and also Iranian authorities do not In the case of Afghans we also support Mujahideen.	allow opening of schools for Afghan chil- Muslims and our support does not have a
dren. What do you say about these charges? sectarian base.
Al-Jehad: Do you have a proper pro-	Mansoori: I believe the difficulties	But there are facts which cannot be ig-
gram for the settlement of the Afghan you mentioned are only in the way of those nored. In Afghanistan, the Shias were op-problem?	who misuse the facilities provided to them, pressed by the previous regimes.
Mansoori: Firstly,the Afghan issue is We help the Mujahideen and the refugees as Unfortunately the Mujahideen ignore Shias. the unity among the Mujahideen and end of much as we can, but unfortunately involve- They are not ready to let Shias be part of outside interference in their affairs. US and ment of some Afghans in drug trafficking their Alliances and refuse to give them their other foreign powers' interference was a big and other illegal acts, under the name of ref- Islamic rights. We are facing an important blow to the Islamic revolution in ugees, forces the security organizations to problem and if we do not support Afghan Afghanistan. The Mujahideen should resist impose strong measures. The Mujahideen Shias now, tomorrow a government will US interference in their affairs the same and refugees will not face difficulties be- come to power in Afghanistan which will way they resisted the Soviet occupation of cause they are refugees. Refugee children resume the killing of Shias. This is the rea-Afghanistan.	are permitted to study in all schools run by son for our stand on this issue, otherwise
Secondly, the Mujahideen should real- the Iranian government Special schools we do not bother ourselves with Sunni and ize that one party or group alone cannot have been opened for refugees living in Shia problems^ We have not helped any rule Afghanistan. The Mujahideen need to camps. Authorities might have not given party in any part of the world just because agree on a common program. No permission for opening schools under spe- it was Shia.
Mujahideen party should claim to be more cial circumstances but in general Afghan Al-Jehad: You support Hezbullah in Islamic than the rest, and all should refrain children in Iran do not face problems in go- Lebanon and earlier you supported Amal, from abusing other Mujahideen parties. ing to school.	.	both of which are Shia parties.
Thirdly, the Mujahideen, in the light of	Al-Jehad: It is true that the Iranian	Mansoori: Is not Amal Shia while we
recent years' experiences, should recognize government helps refugees, but that your support Hezbullah against it? In Iran, hun-who .are their friends and who are their government will not be able to give enough dreds of counter-revolutionaries have been enemies.	assistance to all of than? Why does the executed, all of whom were Shias. We sup-
Al-Jehad: The situation in the world Islamic Republic not allow foreign relief or- port Islam not Sunni and Shia. and region will have an effect on the ganizations to open their offices in Iran?	Al-Jehad:	At	the beginning of the
Mujahideen's decisions. Can the Mansoori: The Islamic Republic will Islamic Revolution the majority of Muslims Mujahideen make decisions that are not af- accept donations of relief assistance to the supported it , but because of harsh policies fected by outside factors?	Afghan refugees by the international relief of Iran, it lost support of the majority of
Mansoori: If we accept the theory that organizations provided it is distributed by Muslims. In most causes you support Shia it is not possible for the Mujahideen to the Iranian government We do not allow in- parties against the Sunni groups. For exam-make decisions which are not affected by dependent activities of foreign relief organi- pie, during Bazargari and Bani Sadr govem-outside factors, then the Mujahideen will al- zation in Iran because it has been proved ments. Iran give support to Hezb-i-Islami ways remain dependent on foreigners. It is that these organizations indulge in activities (Hikmatyar) and Jami'at Island but after the not possible for the Mujahideen to make de- that contradict the objectives of the Afghan Islamic Republic Party took power Iran's cisions under outside pressure now and to-	Muslim nation. What happened in the support was limited to Shia parties,
morrow make independent decisions.	Peshawar refugee camps proves that our	Mansoori: Your information is limit-
Al-Jehad: The leaders of die Islamic policy is correct'	ed. We reject support based on nationality
Republic stress in their statements the need On the other hand, the Afghan refu- and sect. We want to see in Afghanistan for dialogue between all sides in the gees in Iran do not need much foreign assis- that every Afghan's voice is heard irrespec-Afghan conflict. What do they mean by all tance because they can work in Iran, live of its sectarian connection, sides in the conflict? Does the communist	Afghan refugees live in the cities, among	Al-Jehad: Shia parties reject elections
regime in Kabul have a right to sit down Iranians, and many Iranian women. Only a based on one person, one vote. They insist with the Mujahideen in negotiations?	fraction of Afghans live in refugee camps. that a specific number of seats should be
Mansoori: If the Mujahideen were	Al-Jehad:	Two years ago some given to Shias in tire parliament. This leads
united, no need to ask this question would Afghan families from Nimrooz Province to the division of Afghanistan based on have arisen and the Afghan problem would were forced to take refuge in Iran. But the sect. Why don’t you use your influence to have not been prolonged so far. After the Iranian authorities did not allow them,to en- persuade Shia parties to accept elections Soviet troops' withdrawal, even the Soviets ter Iran. Consequently, some of them died ' based on one person, one vote? themselves predicted the fall of the Kabul	because of hunger and cold weather.	Mansoori: Solving Afghan problems
regime within a short time. Now that the Doesn't this contradict the claims of Iran through elections based on one man, one Mujahideen have failed to defeat the Kabul that it helps the refugees?	vote is the proper way. There are other
regime, the regime is a reality that the	Mansoori:	I have no information ways, for example . instead of voting for in-
Mujahideen have to deal with. The nature about this incident. It might have happened
of the deal depends on the Mujahideen. under special conditions. Even now Afghan	Tlim	tO	page (8)