AFGHANews Vol7, No 23, December 1,1991, page ©
Iran airlifts food to Bamyan Province
Western reporters in Kabul, quoting UN officials and eyewitnesses, said that Iranian transport planes have dropped food and clothes in Bamyan for people facing hunger and cold weather.
The number of flights is unknown, but the reports said that C-130 Hercules transport planes were used to air-drop wheat, flour and warm clothes on the Bamyan airfield.
The Kabul regime at first denied the report. Later, the regime's aviation minister said he had received a request three months ago from Iranians to undertake such a mission but rejected it, because there were no technical facilities in Bamyan to guide aircraft, and the province is controlled by the Mujahideen. "I learned later,B die regime minister said, " that the military airfield had taken charge of guiding the Iranian plane."
The people in central Afghanistan face severe food shortages. To escape famine during winter, several thousand people from Hazarajat have already trekked to Pakistan and Iran. Thirteen years of war and the past year's long winter and spring floods have severely cut farm production in central Afghanistan. UN officials in Kabul said they had sent 500 tons of food to the area, but did not specify by what means.
Bamyan is controlled by the Mujahideen. Hezb Wahdat, a Shia party based in Tehran, has its headquarters in the center of Bamyan. Most people in central Afghanistan belong to the Shia sect of Islam.
The BBC reported from Kabul that Najib agreed to let Iranian planes drop food in Bamyan after the Islamic Republic agreed to sell diesel and gasoline to the so-called "national merchants" of the Kabul regime at low prices. The Iranians have not reacted to this allegation. It is also said that the Kabul regime had agreed to the airlift of food under the condition that it would not be made public. Western reporters say the Kabul regime's officials are ashamed of the deal, which permits Iran to spread its influence among the Shia population of Afghanistan. Najib might have agreed to the operation in order to divide the resistance.
Hezb Wahdat, which will be in charge of the distribution of the relief goods, has not made a statement about the operation. It will come under great
political pressure from other Mujahideen groups, who suspect the hand of the Kabul regime in the deal.
Defending the food airlift to Bamyan, the Iranian vice president said differences between governments should not stop cooperation between nations.
The operation has provoked an angry reaction from some Mujahideen parties. The Mujahideen are worried about ever-increasing contacts between Kabul and Tehran.
The Kabul regime has also announced they are sending relief goods to Bamyan. It is not clear whether the food will be sent by air or by road. The road to Bamyan passes through areas controlled by other Mujahideen , who might not allow the regime "humanitarian convoy" to pass through their territory.
Prof. Rabbani, before taking a public stand on the issue, has asked the Iranian government to provide further information.
Wahdat congress ends in Bamyan
The congress of Hezb-i-Wahdat, a Shia party based in Teheran, has decided to continue armed struggle against the Kabul regime..
The congress, attended by commanders and officers of the party, ended in Bamyan Province some weeks ago.
The congress supported UN efforts for Finding a political solution to the Afghan problem, but rejected the idea of a coalition government with the Kabul regime.
From page (1)
ported the former king. He also was among those Afghans living in exile who were trying to form a government in exile. At one stage, they were planning a peace march to Kabul, despite the presence of Soviet troops in the country. He has now surfaced in Kabul, and despite being a citizen of the United States of America, has been given permission to promote the return of the King. Nassery told AFP he was returning to the US because there is no possibility of political work in Kabul as long as Najib is in power.
Moscow accord
From page (1)
opinion among its members.
The next step is the formation of a Mujahideen delegation for the joint commission. Discussions between the Mujahideen parties for this purpose have already started. Prof. Rabbani is trying to persuade the three parties who opposed the visit to join the process. He has held talks with the three leaders of these parties, and believes that unity among the Mujahideen on this issue will ensure the fastest possible establishment of an Islamic government.
The Kabul regime is worried about the results of the Moscow talks, but in public, it tries to undermine the importance of the agreement.
The Soviets have already started to withdraw their military advisors from Afghanistan. There are 300 to 500 of them there.