     AffifiLULflffiEL VOL. II NO. 15                1/8/1986______£M£_£
 understanding of the present situation in Afghanistan can not decide on such important issue. They live just on the ideas and their efforts are doomed to failure . Mo doubt there are individuals among them who may have good intentions but some important figures among them do not have acceptable
 credentials for the job.
 More than that these people should know that writting a few pages about a government does not form a government. Any effort which does not have the support of Mujahideen is not worth thinking about.
 Definitely these efforts which do not have any connection with the Mujahideen will benefit the Soviets. It is like the theory of returning Zahir Shah which wa$ based on similiar assumptions. It was giving false hopes for some people who did not know about the siiaution .
 All Afghans, the friends of Afghanistan and concerned people in governments should know that the theory of forming .a government in exile raised by some old Afghan bureacrats living in America has nothing to do with the Alliance, We consider this type of isolated effort harmful to the cause and only serves the
 Soviets,
                                              FUNNY DRAMAS
 Radio Kabul, the mouth-piece of KGB disinformation, announced a strange but
 funny thing,
 In a so-called Revolutionary Court death sentences were passed on Commander Masood and Commander Panah. The death sentences were passed in their absence on charge of killing people and damaging property.
 It is very funny that such a meaningless drama is projected by some papers like Muslim in Islamabad and in a commentary by the BBC,
 Massood is being accused of killing 480 people . No doubt he is the commander of thousands of Mujahideen and it is too little to say he has been the killer of only 480. In every invasion thousands of Soviets and their puppets get killed or injured. There is a war in Afghanistan. The two sides use guns. Commander Masood and other Mujahideen kill Soviets who have invaded their country and their puppets who are being used by them.
 We can not recieve our enemies with bunches of flowers, If killing a man is permitted by any law the Soviets and their puppets deserve to be killed because of the crimes they have committed,
 The same notorious mouth-piece of the enemy, Radio Kabul, had announced in 1984 that Ahmad Shah Masood had been killed but still he is alive and killing Soviets and their puppets.