AFGHANews Vol 8, No 20, October 15, 1992, page©
Hezb loses Shindand
Hezb Islami launched an abortive attack on Herat on October 1, with the help of local militias of the former regime.
Hezb Islami sources in Islamabad told the media that their forces had cap-, tured Herat airport and other strategic points! and that Fighting for control of the city condnued. Hezb jets and helicopters from Shindand air base were used in the attack.
Hezb Islami, which had suffered defeat outside Kabul, wanted to score a victory in Herat. Militia commanders, who had kept their heavy and light weapons after the fall of the regime, were unhappy with Ismail Khan because they had lost their privileges. Hezb wanted to exploit their frustration to bring Herat under its own control.
The forces loyal to the Islamic government struck back, and within four days the former communists and their Hezb allies were driven back and the city was calm. Government forces under Ismail Khan pursued the rebel forces into the outlying districts and by October 8, resistance had been crushed throughout Herat Province,
The government troops launched an attack on Shindand air base -on October 13 and liberated it after few hours of fighting. Shindand had been used by Hezb to bomb Herat, Mazar and other targets.
According to a source close* to Ismail Khan, more than 800 Hezbis were captured, and a considerable num-
Kabul amends citizenship law
To encourage Afghans living in exile lo return, the Islamic government is studying the possibility of allowing dual citizenship for Afghans.
Such a decision would require legislation because Afghanistan's laws do not permit its nationals to have citizenship in another country.
A considerable number of Afghans, some of whom are doctors, engineers or have other crucial skills, took refuge in other countries during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. Some of these Afghans have accepted'citizenship in their host countries. Their return lo Afghanistan to help Lhe reconstruction of Afghanistan is considered necessary'.
During the last two years of his rule. Najib had issued a decree allowing Afghans living in exile to get Afghan parpens without affecting their status in tire country it toy 1 tved.
ber killed or wounded. The militia com- : mandefs either surrendered or escaped: About 20 Mujahideen were killed and . 100 were wounded.	I
In an interview from Shindand, Ismail Khan described the defeat of the rebellion - as "the true -liberation of Herat.” .
A group of journalists were flown to Herat, where they found the city calm and the road between Shindand and Herat secure. They attended a press conference at Shindand air base. "	;
Despite Hczb's obvious role in the rebellion, Ismail Khan tried hard not highlight Hezb's involvement, instead blaming former'regime militia for the attack. A foreign journalist who attended the press conference told AFGHANews Lhal, even as Ismail Khan was saying that he had captured Lhc base from militias, tattered posters of Gulbuddin could be seen everywhere. This, indicated that Hezb controlled the base until -only three hours before Lhe press conference.. The reporters were surprised by the quick victory’ of the government forces in Herat.
Shindand had 85 jets, transport planes and helicopters before it fell to a ■ .coalition of local militia forces and Hezb Islami last spring. General Amir Hamza, who had fled to Pakistan along-with Khalqi former defense minister Shah Nawaz Tariai after his abortive coup in 1990, was the commander of the base.
... The UN evacuated its workers from Herat to Lhe Iranian city of Mashhad. ICRC sent two planeloads of medical supplies to Qala-i-Naw, Badghis, to betaken hv road to Herat.
Three days before Lhe fall of Shindand, two Hezb jeLS bombed Mazar-i-Sharif, then landed' in Jalalabad. The aerial attack inflicted no casualties.
The incident did, however, reinforce doubts about the impartiality of trie Jalalabad commanders' council, currently involved in peacekeeping operations in Kabul.	' '
A leader of Hezb (Yunus Khalis group) admilLcd that the bombers' flight to Jalalabad was meant to involve the Mujahideen of other parties in the con-• flict between Hezb and the government. Meanwhile Hczb's leader accused Iran of bombing Shindand, But a- government official told reporters that Shindand was bombed on the orders of the defense- minister in retaliation (or lhe bombing of Herat ami Mazar.
From page (4)
While Gulbuddin was negotiating peace in Kabul, he wanted to score a victory in Herat to consolidate his position in the talks. In Kabulhc insisted on "Lhe withdrawal of militiamen," but in Herat he relied on them to help him seize power. Hezb's stated policies are so contradictory that they can only be explained by a simple thirst for power -by any means, however criminal; at any cost in blood and destruction.
The capture of Shindand will bring further security to the area. The Hezb leader can no longer use jets and helicopters to further his crimes.
Gulbuddin ought have realized that the present government docs have a popular base, and lhal it will, be impossible for him to overthrow it by force.
Hezb's only alternative is honest involvement in the political process. In Afghanistan today, political power cannot be established by violence anymore than melons can grow-in the winter. Hezb's defeats in Kabul and Herat are proof of this.
General Dostum visits Islamabad
General Dostum paid a secret visit •to Pakistan at the end of September.
There is not sufficient information about lhc contents of his discussions with Pakistani officials, but he may have discussed ■ the formation of the Shura-i-Hal- wa-Aaqd. He had earlier met with the head of ISI in Tashkent.
Dostum flew' from Mazar to a military base near Islamabad by a military plane. It is not knowm whether Dostum or the Pakistanis had sought approval for this visit from 1 Lhe Islamic government.
Help us publish
AFGHANews!
Please send your donations to:
Account No.55008 Bank Millie Afghan YVazir Akber Khan Br. KABUL-AFGHANISTAN
-k —