  AFGflAfUffilES____MJI_________NQ.22______15/11/1986____PAGE 7
 defeated by the people and finally came back to the country vith 100,' 000 foreign troops.
 Nov that seven long years have passed the Red Army has not been able to take even fev steps tovards vhat they came for. Najib and his coileaques should have learned their lessons by nov and should abstain from making such slogans.
 Three months is a short period for a guerilla var. It vill come to an end soon and the Mujahideen vill be more active not only in Kabul province but in and around the city itself.
 Najib is preaching such victories for tvo purposes. Inside the country he vants to give hope for a demoralized army and outside he vants to shov the vorld that he is gaining ground in the var against the Mujahideen. But vishful thinking and false promises only frustrate them more.
                                    WPC DENOUNCED SOVIET INVASION
 The World Peace Council vhich is considered a Soviet backed organization held its con gress last month in Copenhagen.
 The chairman of the Radical Party of Denmark denounced the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. 30 demonstrators entered the hall vhere the congress vas in session and raised slogans against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan
 The leader of the largest labour union in Denmark criticized the situation in Soviet block countries vhere trade unions do not have the liberty to criticize the military stand of their governments.
 It is a good sign that justice is defended in such a congress vhich has been a traditional supporter of the Soviet policies.The Soviets usually hide behind the vords and manipulate some organizations to give them a peaceful image.But everything has a limit.The Soviets have invaded a small neighbouring country and have been busy killing its people since seven years. It has also has helped Vietnam to invade Cambodia. With all this hov can they claim to support peace.
 We appreciate the Danish organizations stand to raise their voices against aggression committed by a super pover. The incident embarrassed the Soviet delegation and this is the price they have to pay for the unjust var they have unleashed against the people of Afghanistan.
                                        CAN WE TRUST THE SOVIETS
 The Soviet leader has sent a message to Robert Mogabe the current chairman of the NAM. In his message the Soviet leader has assured him of Soviet co-operation vith NAM.
 The Soviets try to give the impression that they are supporters of the NAM. In some cases they call themselves the natural allies of the non-aligned countries. In the past there vere some people vho believed that, but the events in the past ten years have shovn that the Soviets do not respect the NAM principles and ignore its requests.
 The Soviets invaded Afghanistan vhich vas a member of the NAM. Several resolutions asking for the vithdraval of the Soviet troops have been passed by the NAM all of vhich have been rejected by the Soviets. They also have helped the Vietnamese to occupy Cambodia and var continues there too. With all these blatant voilation of international lav and creating the greatest human tragedies of the time, hov can they claim that they have any concern for peace and the veil being of the poor nations.
 The NAM vhich the Soviets vant and support, is the one vhich supports her policies and only criticize the other super power. In the eyes of the Soviets, Cuba and India vho