AIOHMevs Veil 4, Noli, June 1,1988, Page9
| From the Diary of Jehad
J
Local people refused to help us
by BeftfshU
I a friend nf mine were sen? by commander Massood to Anamak.a side-vaHey of Andarab, Our job was to collect. Information about fighting in Panjshir and Andarab and pass a to the commander through a radio Jin ic.
The jMujahideen and the Soviets were preparing for a
\ Si x young Mujahideen who ) did not have enough experience in the war had hidden in a cave. The cave was shown to the Russian troops by some local coHahorators or pro&ahJy the person who had surrendered ?o the enemy two days before. The six young men were taken prisoners. After body
battle which became known as searches they were killed.
the Seventh Offensive', The Pamshir valley was evacuated by the civilian population, Andarab, a valley North of Panishif, was also bombed, B^li day four or five spots were attacked and bombing was repeated four or five times a day. Bombing caused casualties among civilians and the moral of the local people lowered as the number of casualties increased,
A group of the Mujahideen from Panjshir were stationed in Anarnsk, Abdul Wahid was their commander. He had an artificial leg because he had lost one of his legs in a mine explosion some years ago,
{ and my friend, Hafi. were working in a house when the bombing started. From past experience we realized that it was not just bombing but a cover lor landing troops. We packed our equipment and started to escape. After fifteen minutes of craw’llngwe reached an area with enough cover to hide us from the enemy gunners positioned on the high ground.
From behind bush we could clearly see what was going on in the village. A few Mujahideen who had remained in the village resisted the enemy. They killed or injured 1 i Soviet troops.
Eight Mujahideen lost their lives.
The rest of the Mujahideen! regrouped In a spot called ? Korataz, located high up in \ the valley of Anawafc and * discusses the situation with Commander Abdul Wahid. The priority was burying the bodies of the 14 Mujahideen killed in the village during the fighting. If was decided that a group would go back to the village after night fall. If the Russian were still in the area they would attack them if not they would recover the bodies and bury them
We reached the valley and found that the Russians had left the village at 5 0 clock in the after noon. We chose a place for the graves and brought the bodies to the spot. We needed picks and shovels. There were a few villagers but they refused to help us . They were so frightened by the Russians' brutality the previous day that they had forgotten their duty as inusfims to help bury the dead.
Our temper was sharp.
We were tired and our friends had been killed. We had force but did not use it . We had learned working with Commander Massocd that using force against peopfe will help the enemy. Somehow we managed to get a shovel and a pick. We dug a mass
grave to accommodate the fourteen young martyrs.
We were finished by 3 o clock in the morning and returned to the spot where Commander Abdul Wahid was. We were tired and hungry. We were disappointed at the way the local people had behaved. We contacted Commander Massood who was at that time in Khost, a valley further North, and told him about what had happened and sought j his advice about the group $ j intention to go to Panjshir. He j said chat we should remain in j the area as going to Panjshtr ! was very dangerous.
Against the commander s j advice we went to Panjshtr but were attacked and some of our friends were killed and some others including Commander Abdul Wahid were captured by the Russian troops. We remained in the area for two month before we were able to meet Commander Masood after ] he returned from the North, j When I met the commander j he asked about my terrible j experience and I told him the j story. I told him how badly	j
some local people treated us j and despit that we did not use j force against them.	j
Commander said it was a good decision and those people would realize their mistake one day.
The commander proved to be right. A few months later Juraa, the chief commander of miiitiaforces in Andarab was killed by the people of Andarab, Later people started to cooperate with the Mujahideen. They had seen the difference between Mujahideen behavior and the Communists.
]