 AFGHANevs Voll No9, Mey 1,1998, Page?
 Who s who of Mujahideen
Naik Mohammad Khan
 role of the regime in the future of Afghanistan has turned into a topic which is much discussed.
    Despite Soviet efforts the regime has remained isolated ia Afghanistan.
 The people of Afghanistan consider PDPA a Godless Communist party which ushered the Red Army into the country. Therefore no Resistance party is ready to recognize the existence of the Communist regime.
    The recent move by the puppets to adopt a constitution, hold elections and allow the existence of other parties does not have any real substance in them and does not represent a real change in the nature of the puppets. These steps are part of their political manoeuvre to deceive the people at home and abroad.
    Np.jib's soi? tone and Islamic slogans do not make the people forget his criminal records as the head of KHAD and the head of the puppet regime.
    Communism has no future in Afghanistan. The Communists have to pay the price of the crimes they have committed, if the Red Army could not impose it on the people of Afghanistan there is little chance for them to survive after the Soviets have left. Even the favorite terms they have, gained from the Geneva accord will not save them,
  Naoko displays Aghan photos
 NAGKO Nanjo, a Japanese photo-journal 1st who had travelled to Afghanistan to cover the war, has recently opened his second photo exhibition in Japan.
    The first exhibition was held in December last year in which he displayed 5b photographs he had taken in Afghanistan. Alot of people visited the fire show.
    NAIK MOHAMMAD, 40,
 is Jsai'at chief coffit&s&der in Badghif
 Province,
    He was born in an Aimaa peasant family in a village called Tagab In the center e.‘ Badghis. His father was a farmer who was very keen to send his son to the local school which was three or four hours wait from their village. He used to go to school either walking or using a donkey,
    After completing primary and high school in Badghis. Naik Mohammad went to Herat for further studies in the field of education. He studied three years in Dafuimoalimeen (teacher training institution) where he was trained as a teacher,
    From 1971 - 1979 he served as a teacher and then as principal in the Badghis high school. ‘Even before Soviet invasion. Naik Mohammad warned bis students of the Soviet expansionist desires. He spoke of Tajikestan and other Soviet occupied Islamic lands which were invaded and occupied in the time of Lenin and Stalin," said a Muiahid from Badghis who was his student before the. war.
    After the Communist coup in Kabul. Naik Mohammad formed a group , armed them with the traditional weapons available and attacked the Communist administration in Qalai Naw. He captured government offices and arrested the officers.
    in late 1979, Naik Mohammad joined Jam! at Islam! Afghanistan and was appointed as the commander of the province.
   Having a teaching background, Naik Mohammad shows much interest in the education of Mujahideen and the civilian population.
 He is married and has two children.
 Aimaq nationality
    Aimaq is one of the minority groups living in Afghanistan. They live in the provinces of Ghoor. Badghis and Herat. They are divided into smaller groups like Fairoo* Kohi, Taimani. jamshaidi and Hazara.
   Aimaqs are all Sunni Muslims. Their language is Dari (Afghani Persian! and their cultural background goes back to the Ghorite reign.
   Their economy is based on agriculture and animal husbandry. Aimac people keep good horses for riding and traditional games. Their women make very fine rugs and carpets. They were poor people and the war against the Russians has made them poorer.
   Aimaqs are religious people.They have famous Ulamalreiigious scholars) Like other nationalities, Airnaqs have fully participated in the resistance against the Soviet invaders.They belong to different political organizations but Jaml'ai is a dominant force.
   The Russian tactics have been (a) to create divisions between the minority and rhe majority groups and (b) create disunity among different elans of the minority group. “Islam and love of our motherland has frustrated these Soviet tactics, said. Badghis representative in Peshawar.