	AFGHANews Vol 6, No 3,	February 1,1990, page Q
		
rived in Shakar Dara. Dr. Khan Agha and Anwar Khan are Jami'at commanders in this district. Shakar Dara was being bombarded by enemy artillery units stationed at the Khairkhana Pass, north of the city of Kabul every day. Arab volunteers had built a health clinic in Shakar Dara. The track that we used last year to go from Shakar Dara to Paghman was blocked by the regime and we had to take a new route. The new route is use-able only at nights because during the day one can be seen by enemy out posts. Last year Soviet planes dropped flares and watched the roads but we did not see a single flight during that night that we passed through the area. Militia forces of the regime were in control of mountain top posts in Paghman. One week before our arrival, the Mujahideen had captured four posts in Pachak Hill. In retaliation, the regime forces fired Origan (BM-27) rockets which were based in Qargha. The Mujahideen said that BM-27. rockets exploded in the air spreading 30 cluster bombs over the target area. This is a deadly anti-personnel weapon. The Mujahideen have established a new base in Arghandeh and were building a road between Maidan and Paghman. We saw 50 Hazaras working on the road. ince there was trouble in Maidan between Hezb (Hikmatyar) and ^ Harakat, we had to take a longer route. After passing Jalriz, we reached Takana, where the inhabitants are Hazaras. From here trucks go to Pakistan. Shia parties had built check posts along the way. Their posts were decorated with picture of Imam Khomeyni, Ayatullah Muntaziri, Muhammad Ismail Bukhi (an Afghan Shia leader who died in jail). Takana is at the border of Hazarajat, the stronghold of Shia parties. Shia parties recently formed a hew Alliance in which Shoora-e-Ittifaq party also participated. Hazarajat is a cold area and its land is not very fertile for growing crops. The people are poor and they were forced to work in Kabul to earn their living. Most Hazaras are Shia. They have their own political parties, nine of which are based in Tehran. These people complain about bad treatment they received from all governments in Kabul* Now they are demanding change and want representation in a futur government. They claim to form 25 percent of the whole population of Afghanistan while others estimate them seven per cent of the population.	Jn all the villages along the Mujahideen rout, Hazaras have built bazaars. We saw bakeries, tinsmith shops, tea houses and shops selling spare parts of trucks. ■m /irujahideen trucks coming from 1VIPakistan were bringing food and were taking back scrab metals from Russian tanks and trucks. A commander from Nasre party said that a delegation of die 9-party coalition had gone to meet with Commander Masood last month. The delegation headed by Akber Khan Nargis discussed ways of cooperation between the Supervisory Council and the Coalition of nine Shia parties. The two sides agreed to cooperate with each other. In Taizak area a commander of Harakat (Mohsini ) took 23000 Afs. from the drivers of trucks as road tax. In Chack district the drivers paid 25000 and 15000 respectively in two places for men from Hikmatyar's party. The Chack power plant is presently idle. Its workers are being paid by the Kabul regime based on a tacit agreement between the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime. From Wardak we reached Mohammad Aagha, a district in Logar. This area was the scene of fighting between the Mujahideen and the communist forces some weeks before we arrived. The enemy convoys wanted to reach Gardiz but failed. Regime planes bombed the area during the night. This is a transit point between Pakistan and several destinations inside Afghanistan. We found a place to sleep in a mosque but women and children in the trucks passed a difficult night It was a cold night and one of the children died. From Logar to Dobandy, there were two more check posts of Hezb Islami. They forcibly confiscated goods being transported from Pakistan to Afghanistan. Bombing of the road continued all night. The regime makes use of transport planes to bomb the road which is used by refugees and Mujahideen. Hezb has established a check post in Jaji in which the passengers' party affiliations are checked. These posts were established after Hikmatyar left the interim government. Two months ago, 13 Jami'at rucks loaded with weapons and goods were captured in Jaji by Hezb and their drivers are still in custody of that party. After nine days we arrived Pakistan. Note: The writer has puplished the account of his first trip on November 15. 1988 issue of AFGHANews.	Cambodia | From page (5) | seat is occupied by the Kabul regime. The Afghan resistance is composed of parties which have had no experience in running the country. Few parties had limited activities before the communist coup of 1978, the remaining were formed after the coup. One of the factions of the Cambodian resistance, the Khmer Rouge, was in power in Cambodia when the Vietnamese invaded that country in 1978. The Khmer Rouge ruled the country in an oppressive way and more than a million Cambodians lost their lives under Khmer Rouge rule. The world seem concerned about the monopoly of power by this party which is the largest of the three resistance groups. This party has replaced its old leadership and says it will run the country under coalition with other groups. The Islamic nature of the Afghan resistance has become a source of concern to some people who supported Afghans in their war against the Soviets. They are afraid of the emergence of "a radical Islamic state". The closer the resistance is to the victory the bigger these worries grow. Thee Cambodian resistance is ready : to .form a coalition government with the regime of Heng Samrin under cer- , tain conditions, while the Afghan resis- : tance rejects any type of deal with the Najibullah regime. This brings the chance of a political solution in Cambodia closer than in Afghanistan. The Soviets withdrew their forces based on an international agreement; the Geneva Accords, signed on April 14, 1988. This agreement, which was signed behind the back of the Mujahideen, prohibits Pakistan from supporting the Mujahideen while the Soviets are not bound to any restrictions in support of the Kabul regime. The Geneva Accords have turned into a propaganda tool for the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime to use against the Mujahideen and Pakistan. The withdrawal of Vietnamese forces was a decision of Vietnam and no international agreement was involved. The two resistances are facing an uphill battle in both military and political fields. They need to show their superiority in the battlefield despite shortages in supplies and fighting a new type of war. They also have to preserve the sympathy of their international sup-praters who now look at both conflicts as civil wars.