--------- "	AfGHAStro*	?0l4>	Hota,	September 15,1988, Page?
Regime seeks Afghan solution in space
THE space flight of the * puppet regime‘s officer was designed to get publicity for a regime vhich is losing a war of survival.
AMul Ahmad Mohammad, s Kabul regime army colonel was sent to space aboard Soyoz to join the space station of Mir on August 29.
Long before the flight took place the propaganda machinery of the regime and Soviets projected the mission as an important event for Afghanistan and a sign of ‘ friendship1* between the Soviet Union and the regime.
Both Soviet and regime sources stressed the economic
PROF. Burhanuddln	j
Rabbani wifi assume the	I
responsibilities of the	{
chairman of the Alliance for three months from September 15th.
Prof. Rabbani is the leader of jam! at. Islam! Afghanistan, one of the constituent members of the seven party al i iaace of the Mujahideen. The post of the president is assumed by one of the 7-party leader on a rotational basis tot a period of three months.
The time that Prof.
Rabbanl is assuming the post Is critical. Halt of the Soviet troops have left and if the Soviets comply with the Geneva accords the rest of the troops have to leave not later than February 15th 1989.
The important task before | the Alliance is consolidation and broadening the base of the Alliance. There is a need ]
aspects of the flight but it is believed that the mission could be used Tor military purposes in the war against the Mujahideen. But the main aim is neither economic nor military but propaganda,
Soviets have a traditional use of scientific achievements to promote their political and ideologies! aims.
Sending the first woman to space was designed for the purpose of propaganda.
A joint space mission for the countries having solid Industrial and scientific foundations is Indeed a step forward. But the joint Syrian-Russlan and Afghan-Russian space flights
for broadening the base of the Alliance by including other parties {mainly belonging to the Shis sect) in the Alliance.
it has already been decided to send a delegation to Tehran to negotiate with the concerned parties. Prof, Rabbani will be a suitable person to follow it more closely.
The current spokesman of the Alliance has to find a formula based on which better cooperation between the Resistance parties in the military and political fields material tees, In order to win the war against the Soviet-backed regime of Najibuiiah and then run the country in a smooth way, close cooperation of all the parties in the Resistance is important.
Only time will tell how successful he will be in his difficult mission, 0
have nothing to do with scientific progress.
Afghanistan is % backward country with little achievements in the scientific arena. The attention by the pre-war regimes to improve the situation was slow and the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan destroyed what was achieved.
The Kabul University and the higher educational institutions were purged by the Communists and few professors have remained there. The rest were either killed or have left the country,
The country is in an appalling economic situation. Kabul city which has always been under the control of the Communists does not have enough drinking water, housing facilities, medical services, schools and essential commodities like food, and fuel. Electricity is a luxury for the party people and Soviets,
Having ait these problems how one can justify a cosmic flight as a sign of technical progress in the country.
The timing of the flight was designed to get publicity for the regime at a critical time,
HaU of Soviet troops have left Afghanistan and according to the Geneva accords the rest has to leave before February 15th, It is commonly believed that the survival of the regime will be in jeopardy after the Soviets complete their withdrawal.
By including a puppet officer in the space mission, the Soviets wanted to show that the regime is strong and stable, and can survive even | after February 15th, 0
Jaraiat leads Alliance for three critical months