-------------- AEGHiKBw	vail	No	13, July t, 1988. Fogs6 ;
Victory emerges from rubble of historic Herat city
THE situation in Afghanistan today has really very little to do with the most common reporting. 1 travelled through seven provinces of Afghanistan while the negociations in Geneva went through their final phase and the documents were signed. Nowhere did I meet expectations that peace would soon be at
hand.
The fact that the Soviets ere leaving to* of csurge celebrated m a victory, hut everybody is aware that the Soviets have left their deadly tccL the Hafife regime.
All responsible Mujahideen leaders believe that the war-torn country has a long way to go until the five million refugees can safely return.
In some respects the war has got even tougher. living conditions have deteriorated to the limits of famine and the Afghan government pilots that are now manning the jet bombers considered to be even more cruel than their Soviet masters.
I followed one of the most important supply routes for the Mujahideen in the Northern provinces, from Ghazni in the South, through Hazarajat. Helmand valley, Ghor mountains to the Herat plain.
When 1 reached the Herat plain it was already spring and the almonds were blossoming, i met many of my
Stefan Lindgren
friends from a stay in the same area in late 1985. A few of them had been killed, but Ismael Khan s jam!'at forces were mostly intact and reinforced.
Ismael claims to be Amir of all Western Afghanistan, and says ho has 20,000 Mujahid in arms,
Many things had changed fundamentally since my last stay there,
■ Ail guerrilla forces are now equipped with modern shortwave communication radios,
•	The helicopters are practically gone, I only saw them on two occasions and the reason is simple. After a few hits with Stinger missiles the enemy Quickly changed their tactics. Now bombardments with jet fighters from a high altitude is prevailing. Any village from which a rocket is fired has to expect jet attacks which occur practically every day.
•	The systematic artillery bombardments of the Western Herat plain is continuing on a full scale, with the only difference that the Afghan government forces are more active now and the Soviets less.
But the most surprising new development occurred to me when I was picked up In one of Herat's Eastern suburbs with a government jeep and was taken all through the the city-passing the governors palace. Hotel Herat where the Soviet advisors families stay as well as the military airport.
The jeep was driven by a chauffeur well-known to .the Afghan and Soviet soldiers patrolling this road which connects the Soviet border and Herat with Kandahar. We were
never stopped. Before continuing to a place Southwest of the city we made a short stop at the militia headquarters.
The militia in Herat, which was negleglblc two years ago, has now become a considerable force playing a high double game. According to Mujahideen sources three fourths of the militia secretly cooperate with the Resistance.
All of the big militia leaders are former Mujahideen, who went over to the government a few years ago. But the balance shifts again now the Soviets are leaving and the mi litia leaders have renewed their old loyalties. No matter how many Mujahideen they have killed in the meantime they and their guns are welcomed by Ismael Khan.
The chauffeur I was going with was working for one militia leader who alone had supplied the jamiat forces with more than one thousand Katashinkovs.
I was taken to this militia leader's guest house, built to please Soviet officers.
In a luxurious room with electric iight from diesel engines ! met a young guerrilla hoy who had been hit by seven bullets in his chest. He was hit when he tried to blow up a Soviet tank on the highway.
"But the militia saved me," he told me, "They took me to the Soviet hospital and told the Soviet surgeons that 1 was a reliable militiaman. So the surgeons did their very best and saved my life."
Thanks to the shift in the militia loyalties, Ismael Khan now has better access to the city itself, and all the surrounding villages.