AFGHANews Vol 7, No 17, September 1,1991, page
By: Prof. Khalilullah Khalili
lit	•
Part (2)
Our soldiers at Dehdadi began to prepare for battle. In the next three days, our forces skirmished with the Russian troops. Mirza Mohammad Qasim Khan and Da Mulla Arab joined the Dehdadi forces too, accompanied by about 1000 horsemen. In Dehdadi, there were some crates of weapons brought from Italy by King Amanullah years before. Nobody knew how to assemble them. The guns made by Kabul factories were in poor condition and lacked ammunition.
Moreover our gunners did not want to fire toward the Holy Shrine of Hazrat-i-AIi. In the very first days of the crisis, most of the civilians of Mazar had fled the city. The stories of the Russian atrocities brought by the civilians to Dehdadi angered us and we wanted to fight the Russians. Ghulam Nabi Khan could no longer justify his attack. Everybody knew that he was brought and helped by the Soviet soldiers. According to the people who came from Mazar-i-Sharif, only 100 Afghans had come along with Ghulam Nabi from the Soviet Union. The rest, including officers, mechanics, gunners and foot soldiers were all Russian.The commander of the operation was a Russian who was called by an Afghan name, Ragheb. They said he was Turkish but the color of his eyes, hair and skin, and the language that he spoke showed that he was a Russian. To deceive the people, he was taken to the great mosque of Mazar to offer Juma (Friday) prayers. He could not pray at all; instead he imitated others who were praying in the mosque. People realized that Ghulam Nabi had no power. He was used as a rubber stamp to seal the decisions made by the Russians. The lives and properties of the people of Mazar were in danger. Suspicions led to house searches and the arrest and killing of young people. People in the city reported that the Soviets took their dead and wounded to the border at night to be sent to the Soviet Union.
Jehad continued day and night Sher Abad, Kala i-Hajiri and Takhta Pul separated our forces from the Russian troops. Our soldiers could not attack the enemy base because it was located where the Shrine of Hazrat-i-Ali was. The other obstacle was the presence of the women and children still living in the city. We did not want to endanger their lives.
But the Russian artillery pounded the Mujahideen's positions mercilessly and destroyed their villages. Hundreds of students from Madrasas (religious schools) wore white shrouds and fought against the Soviet invaders in the first line of battle. (Wearing a shroud is a symbolic preparation far martyrdom. This is practiced by some dedicated Muslims in Jehad fought against non-believers.) Dah Mullah-i-Arab had said: " In Jehad for religion and country, the true sons of Islam kill the enemy or are killed by their enemies".
Despite the superiority of the enemy in training and heavy weapons, the Mujahideen were successful in irregular warfare. They launched night raids. Students of the religious schools who wore shrouds and fought in the first line suffered most of the casualties, but the number of their volunteers increased each day.
Attempt to liberate Mazar-i-Sharif
Scattered fighting lasted for about three weeks. Khalifa of Qezel Ayak sent two thousand Turkman armed ridos undo the command of his younger brother. Some of them were refugees who had come to Afghanistan when their land was occupied years before by the Russians. Their weapons were Russian rifles but their ammunition was not enough even for two or three operations. Some of them had hand grenades which they had brought from the Soviet Union.
The arrival of the Turkman Mujahideen and our repeated attacks worried the enemy. The enemy had been delayed in Mazar longer than they had expected. The enemy’s calculation that Dehdadi would fall soon after the capture of Mazar had proved wrong. Ghulam Nabi had said that resistance by "the turbaned and baggy-clothed men" (a reference to the Mujahideen irregulars) would not last long. But these people stopped his advance for days and nights on end with strength of their faith. The Soviets were becoming worried because a long stay in Afghanistan would have exposed their designs to the world.
More important. King Habibullah was still fighting. The Soviets wanted to capture Dehdadi quickly and attack Kabul through Bamyan. Since Habibullah's soldiers were holding out
in Kandahar against Amanullah Khan and in Paktia against Nadir Khan, it wa£ important that the Russians act quickly. The Soviets considered Habibullah Khan as their enemy because he had indicated support for Amir Alam Khan, the king of Bukhara. Moreover they were not sure Nadir Khan (King Zahir's father) would win his campaign.
Mujahideen attacked Mazar from three directions. The firsTgroup of our riders reached Baghi-i-Hdzur, a garden inside the city of Mazar, at dawn. Suddenly the battlefield situation changed. Five Russian aircraft, flying from Termez, started to attack the rear of our forces. The enemy artillery also attacked our soldiers. Fighting continued all day. Soviet planes bombed the villages and our attacking troops 12 times. The ground had no cover and the Mujahideen had no anti-aircraft weapons. About 7,000 people were killed or wounded in one day. Dehdadi fell to the enemy after heavy bombing.
Sher Ali Khan retreated to Balkh and Ghulam Sediq Khan to Tashqurghan. I accompanied the later. That night, a group of our men attacked the enemy from the direction of Tashqurghan but achieved no victory. The Soviets entered the city of Mazar and the Mujahideen retreated to Tashqurghan. Soviet planes continue to bomb them all along the way.
Almost all the people, including the women, participated in the battle for Mazar. The Russian troops, after capturing the city, hanged, shot hacked and burnt to death hundreds of people
Tashqurghan
While preparing ourselves and mobilizing the people to defend Tashqurghan, we received a message from Kabul asking me to return to the capital. This was our first official message from Kabul. I was instructed to go to Kabul with all the documents regarding the situation. The central government in Kabul was not aware of the fall of Mazar and Dehdadi. In consultation with Mirza Mohammad Qasim Khan and Da Mullah Arab, I wrote a detailed report of the events. Unfortunately the documents received from Ghulam Nabi Khan were left in Dehdadi. While preparing to leave for Kabul, the Soviet planes appeared in the sky and airdropped leaflets signed by Ghulam Nabi Khan. They read .as follows: