Vol 7, No 4	February	15,1991
AlG sends
TROOPS TO
SAUDI ARBI*
Hie Afghan Interim Government (AIG) sent 300 Mujahideen to Saudi Arabia, on February 8 to fight under the command of Saudi Arabia.
Immediately after the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait, the Saudi Government asked the AIG to send troops to that country to defend it against a possible Iraqi invasion. The AIG cabinet decided to send 2,000 Mujahideen to Saudi Arabia but the dispatch of the fighters was delayed due to difficulties in getting travel documents.
The outbreak of war in Gulf has changed the position of some of the AIG leaders. Prof, Sayyaf is now opposed to sending Mujahideen fighters to Saudi Arabia. MIDIA, the official news agency of the AIG, giving the news of sending troops, said the decision to send Mujahideen to Saudi Arabia was taken by Mujaddidi, the President of AIG, and a few other leaders. It also published a statement by Prof. Sayyaf, the Prime Minsiter of AIG, in which he opposed sending Mujahideen because of the presence of Western troops in the Kingdom. .
Hikmatyar, the leader of Hezb Islami, has called sending Mujahideen troops to Saudi Arabia an act of treason.
The row over this issue indicates the delicate situation the Mujahideen are facing. The Saudi Government has been quite generous in giving material assistance to the Mujahideen, especially to Prof. Sayyaf and Hikmatyar, am is one of the four countries which has recognized the AIG.
But the defiant mode of the Islamic movements towards the pres ence of Western forces in the Gulf is putting pressure on those parties of the Afghan resistance which are labeled by the Western media as fundamentalists The position taken by some
Turn to page (4 )
Earthquake, floods kill hundreds of Afghans
Earthquake in the northeast and floods in the southwest of Afghanistan have killed or wounded hundreds of Afghans and have destroyed thousands of houses*
The earthquake which shook north-east Afghanistan on February 2 measured 6.8 on the Richter scale and its epicenter was about 200 kilometers north-east of Kabul. The preliminary information gathered by the Supervisory Council of Janii'at gives the following account of casualties and losses of property:
I Six people were killed, 15 were injured and more than 300 houses were destroyed in Panjshir, Kapisa Province.
I Nine people were injured and 21 houses were destroyed in Pachaghan, a side valley in Nejrab District, Kapisa Province.
I Five people were killed, two were injured and 19 houses were destroyed in Andarab District, Baghlan Province.
I Five people were killed, 20 were injured, 100 houses were destroyed and a large number of livestock were killed in Nahrin District, Baghlan Province.
I Thirty people woe killed; 90 woe . injured, 1100 houses were destroyed and 600 cattle were killed in Farkhar District, Takhar Province.
I Ten people were killed and 60 houses were destroyed in Mazar-i-Sharif, Balkh Province.
I Nine people were killed, 44 were injured, 550 houses and six mosques were destroyed, 1054 houses were dam-aged and 212 cattle were killed in Khost-o-Fering District, Baghlan Province.
According to another source ten people were killed and a large number of houses were destroyed in Kunar Province.
Due to heavy snowfall and slow communications, reports of casualties and losses from the remote areas have not been received yet.
The regime was quick in giving
news of casualties but figures given sixteen hours after the earthquake shows that the Tosses in the govem-emnt-controlled cities are light. According to the regime account, the earthquake killed one person and destroyed 14 houses in Kabul In Pul-i-Khumri, Baghlan Province, three people died, eight were injured and 40 houses were damaged. Thirty houses were destroyed in Faizabad, Badakhshan, and one person was injured in Jalalabad. Due to the regime's limited control over territory and existence of wireless communications between regime centers, the figures given above could show the limit of the destruction in the cities.
The earthquake added to the misery of Afghans,who were already suffering from high prices and fuel shortages during the harshest winter in 25 years.
Ahmad Shan Masood, the head of the Supervisory Council, has asked international relief organizations andthe UN to assist the victims of the earthquake immediately.
the Kabul regime was quick to exploit the natural disaster to get financial support from international organizations and pose as the spokesman of al Afghans. But Masood has said the Kabul regime has no access to the liberated areas and cannot be a channe for aid. Responding to the regime request, the UN has provided 30,000 dollars for earthquake victims.
The earthquake killed more than 200 people in Pakistan's North West Frontier Province, injured more than 500 and destroyed up to 4000 houses The quake was also felt in some Soviet Central Asian Republics, causing material losses. Many mud huts of Afghan refugees were destroyed in the earthquake but there were no figures available for the refugees.
The four provinces of Kandahar, Helmand, Farah and Nimroz in southwest Afghanistan were hit by flood Turn to page (3)