RFSHHH MEWS UQl.lU. HO. 3, I/2/19B8, FSGE 6
                              PEACE PROSPECTS THROUGH THE GENEVA TALKS
 Mr, Biego Cordovezs shuttle diplomacy between Kabul and Islamabad has ones more put the Afghan issue in the limelight of the international media
 A lot of people seem optimistic about a political solution to the Afghan issue through the Geneva proximity tai&s and think that the day when Afghanistan will be free again is ciose. But the situation is not as promising as it seems. Tremendous difficulties over the key issues of -withdrawal of Soviet forces la a short period of time and the right of Afghans for self-determination and guarantees for non-interference in the affairs of Afghanistan in the future have remained unsolved and little has been discussed
 Without solving these key issues it would be simple-minded to believe in a quick solution to the problem and return of peace to the country.
 About the present Geneva format one can say with full confidence that it is unable to soive any problem of an important nature On the contrary, any agreement signed between Pakistan and the puppet regime will complicate the situation
 The reason is simple The Geneva proximity talks do not include the Russian aggressors and the Mujahideen who fight for the freedom of their country. There is no way for the people of Afghanistan , based on the present format, to choose the regime of their choice. Any agreement is Geneva will be signed by the puppet regime, Signing such an agreement will legitimize the puppet regime and ail the accords she has signed with the Soviet Union in the past nine years,
 In purely technical terms it is not a balanced agreement either, According to the agreed instruments as soon as the withdrawal of Soviet troops starts aid of any kind to the Mujahideen will be cut (including Mujahideens' access to the international press). There is no mention about cutting of the Soviet aid to the puppet regime in Kabul.
 Politically any agreement in Geneva will be a triumph for an illegal puppet regime and a.more important victory for the Soviets to show that they were peace-loving
 The vague terms repeated by the international community about the right of Afghans to determine their future will be lost in the middle of the excitement immediately after the accord The Mujahideen have enough reasons to be worried about the whole set-up. When the chairman of the Alliance refuses to meet Cordovez on private bases and criticizes the Geneva talks be .has good reason to do so. But at the same time this does not mean we are not in favour of a political solution.
 We believe in a political solution but to us a political solution must guarantee our country’s independence, territorial integrity and the right for self-determination
 The Mujahideen are not worried ifcat they can not defeat the puppet regime in the battlefields in Afghanistan. They are sure about it What they are worried about is the Soviet reaction in case that happens
 It is also not clear how many Soviet advisors and combat units will remain in Afghanistan to protect the regime after the withdrawal, It is also not clear how much arms, ammunition, money etc the regime will get. from the Soviets after the agreement is signed
 Under these circumstances peace will not come, War will continue and there will not be a possibility for the refugees to return on their own choice. What would be the interpretation of the Soviets of that development and what would be the reaction of the host country if despite an agreement the refugees could not go 1*3 their country?
                      The present Geneva format assumes that there is no fighting from inside, ail the
                      problems start from Pakistan. So an agreement with Pakistan could solve the problem.