AFGHANews Vol7, No 21, November 1,1991, page
From the diary of Jehad	Part	(3)
A short visit to Badakhshan
After spending two days with Sayyed Najmuddin, we left for Eshkashim. The trip to Eshkashim took 24 hours due to bad road and car breakdown. I was excited to visit the border town which was liberated recently. We passed by several large and small villages on the way from Zebak to Eshkashim. The valley was green and the scenery extremely beautiful. We saw a school in Bazgir in which minor boys and girls studied in the same class.
We reached Eshkashim around noon. Dr. Sa'dullah, the Mujahideen commissar (officer in charge of border affairs) greeted us. He worked as a doctor in Jorm before his new appointment. I asked him about the negotiations held between the Mujahideen and the Soviets about some weeks before. He said both sides were interested in holding talks. The Mujahideen wanted to stop the Soviets from intervention in support of the Kabul regime and the Soviets'wanted to make sure that the Mujahideen presence along the border did not pose any threat to their security. The Soviets asked for holding talks and Commander Najmuddin accepted the offer after consultation with Cmdr. Masood and Prof. Rabbani.
The Mujahideen sent a three member team to the talks which were held on the border. The Soviet delegation included Evan, the former Soviet commander in Zebak, Nadir Sharafi and a third person. Talks were limited to border security. Soviet side promised, not to allow the Kabul regime to make use Of the Soviet territory to attack the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen promised not take any hostile action against the Soviets. Both sides agreed to contact each other in case of incidents concerning border security.
The agreement between the two sides is not in a written form. The Soviet side, being afraid of its political implications, did not agree to sign any paper. But a UN official posted in the the border served as a witness to the agreement at the request of the Mujahideen delegation. The Mujahideen also filmed and photographed the meeting.
While the Kabul regime and Tass, the Soviet official news agency, denied holding of border talks between the Mujahideen and the Soviet officials, a local paper in Tajikistan reported it quoting a border official of the Soviet Union.
Mohammad Es'haq gtn
Soviet Union's decision not to support the Kabul troops inflicted a serious blow to the communists in Badakhshan. The local communists had always thought that their Soviet comrades would come to their support when attacked by the Mujahideen. The Soviets' refusal to help the regime forces in Eshkashim and Zebak and holding talks with them resulted in the fall of Sheghnan and Wakhan districts to the Mujahideen. It also passed a signal to the Kabul that Moscow could not help if it failed to defend itself against the freedom fighters.
The Mujahideen told me the defeated Kabul troops in Eskashem wanted to cross the border into Soviet Union but they were not allowed to do so. They spent one night on the border. The UN store houses on the border provided them protection from cold weather and wind. The next day, some of them were flown out by helicopters to Sheghnan which was controlled by the regime at that time. Sayyed Najmuddin sent a message to the remaining forces promising amnesty if they returned. Most of them accepted the offer and returned. A few of them who refused to return were brought back by the Mujahideen by force and were released in Eshkashim.
The amnesty announced by Sayyed Najmuddin was real. No one was imprisoned because of his past deeds, no matter how a big officer of die regime he was. I asked him about the possible danger they might pose to the security of the area because their loyalty to the Mujahideen was questionable. He said: "I have to honor my promise. They are free and will be free as long as they have not committed any crime. If they break their promises we will punish them."
I was told that the Soviets refused to allow defeated communist officers from Shegnan District to cross the river into die Soviet Union. In order to prevent their crossing, die Soviets lifted the bridge connecting Shegnan to Khariq of Tajikistan.
Eshkashim has no modem facilities. Due to its distance from other cities and towns of Afghanistan, the prices of essential commodities were very high. Despite being a peaceful area the communist regime had done nothing to improve the living condition of the peo-
ple. When asked about regime services to the people, a local man said: "The Kabul regime did nothing to us. It took 30 of our sons to fight against the Mujahideen. After two years, two or three of them returned with, a few old blankets on their shoulders as a booty of war. The rest were killed.” Because this, die Kabul regime does not enjoy support in areas along the border.
The Kabul regime had been facing financial crises in the border area. It was not able to pay the salary of its militiamen and officers for 11 months. The regime forces in Eshkashim had borrowed food from the local merchants. They owed the two butchers of Eshkashim 60 million Afghani. The butchers woe asking the Mujahideen to permit them to go to Faizabad and demand their money from the regime. Permission was granted to them.
Most of the people m Eshkashim, Wakhan and Sheghnan are the followers of Ismailia sect There are no mosques in their villages and one cannot hear the call for prayers in the area. When we offered our prayers in Eshkashim, the children stared at us because it was new to them. It seemed dial for the Ismailias respect for the spiritual leaders and giving charity to them were the only worship they supposed to do. Ignorance about Islam and sense of isolation from the rest of Afghanistan had made these people less interested in Jehad. This allowed die Soviets and the Kabul regime to use them against the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen have to spread the true message of Islam among them. True Islam will enable them to get rid of undesired traditions and open the way for social and economic development of die area. During die Soviet occupation, the people of these areas were like prisoners. They were cut from therestof Afghanistan. Liberation of die area has given them their freedom. They now freely mix with other people and do business with them.
The people of Zebak and Eshkashim speak in Persian, while the people in Eskatool and Sanglech have their own local languages. The people of Wakhan and Sheghnan have then-own local languages as well. All o' them can speak in Persian.
Addiction to opium is a major problem in the area. A considerable number of men and women are addicted to smoking opium.. Addiction is common even among their religious