AFGHANews Vol 6, No 1, January 1,1990, page ©
AFGHANews now enters sixth year of its service to Jehad
Bv: Mohammad Es’haq
In the spring of 1984,1 and colleague of mine, Masood Khalili, felt there was a need for an organized publication to keep people interested and currently informed about the Afghan cause. We boldly decided to initiated such a project and named our publication Afghanews, with the objective of publishing battlefield news in the English language.
Previously, Jami'at Islami gave the news of the political activities of the Mujahideen to local news agencies via periodical press releases.
Jami'at had been publishing a monthly journal titled Mirror of Jehad. However, the Alliance formed a rule that no party papers could any longer be published, resulting in the closure of Mirror of Jehad. A gap was created that could not be filled with press releases only. Therefore we decided to design a newspaper. This publication had many weaknesses associated with its presentation, language, and editing format but because the cause was very popular people over looked the weaknesses.
Initially we printed Afghanews with a duplicating machine of the Military Committee of Jami'at, located outside Peshawar. This arrangement had many problems including 1) The publishing locality was a considerable distance from our office, 2) The place of printing was noisy, and 3) Sometimes the operator of the machine was not very cooperative.
In order to overcome these problems we needed to find a duplication machine for our own usage. However, we faced another problem, namely the lack of money. An Afghan friend in France sent us a broken duplicating machine to be repaired in Peshawar, but unfortunately the missing parts were not available. We then proceeded to talk to support organizations in Peshawar, but they could not help us because our journal was affiliated with a political organization, which was contrary to their laws.
The head of the United States Information Service (USIS) center in Peshawar, John Dixon, was kind enough to give us a second hand duplicating machine but this machine was also not functioning properly.
Finally, with financial help of Jami'at and Ander Figar of the Swedish Committee, we were able to buy a Gestetner duplicating machine and a Scanner. These two machines significantly improved the quality of the
Afghanews, resulting in us printing many additional copies.
Initially we sent the paper to one hundred addresses originally taken from the banned Mirror of Jehad magazine.
In a short span of time our mailing list reached 700. Economic considerations and problems associated with printing slowed down further expansion of our mailing list. Problems were also faced with maintaining up to date mailing lists.
Due to the limited number of published copies and the high postage costs of Afghanews, the paper was sent only to selected groups and individuals who had expressed a special interest in the developments in Afghanistan. These sources included support groups, relief organizations, libraries, internationally acclaimed news papers and magazines, foreign diplomats based in Pakistan, U.N. Missions of various countries, and research centers around the world.
At the time of writing, the paper is mailed to 2000 addresses in Europe, America, Africa, Australia, Middle East, Far East and Pakistan.
As we expanded the circulation of Afghanews, it became evident that to ensure the continued growth of the paper, we needed to adopt the technology of computers. In order to research the benefits of computer usage, I visited the office of Freedom Medicine, an American private relief organization in Peshawar. They were using Macintosh computers to organize their affairs. I stayed there observing them using then-computers and Bob Brunner, an employee, kindly demonstrated some simple procedures. I concluded that the Macintosh computer would greatly enhance the production of Afghanews.
Once the finance had been found for meeting the purchasing costs, I approached Gay-La-Cler, the then director of Freedom Medicine and she promised to help me in buying a Macintosh computer.
After a few months the computer arrived and I immediately started using it to produce Afghanews. We were the first group among the resistance to use a computer to publish a newspaper.
Initially using a computer in the publication was confusing and I had to rely upon referring to the Users Manual. Later I was tutored by Taimur Friedman, a young American who was bom in Kabul and was now helping
Afghans through his employment with Freedom Medicine. He knew a lot about computers and was very generous with his time and friendly in his dealings. The first computerized issue of Afghanews was published on 15th of July, 1986.
In order to further improve the quality of our paper it was felt that members of our production staff needed professional training. One staff member (Abdul Wali), participated in a six-month training program in London under a scholarship by the British Council. Abdul's English improved significantly, but unfortunately he did not have many opportunities to become fully acquainted with using computers.
In March, 1988,1 went to London and started a two-week theoretical training course in news writing at the Thomson Foundation in London. The Thomson Foundation is an organization involved in training journalists and broadcasters from third world countries.
I was the second Afghan to study at the foundation. The two-week training course proved a valuable source of learning.
After two weeks I joined the staff of the weekly paper titled Aylesbury Plus published in Aylesbury, who were using Macintosh computers. I became well acquainted with production and designing techniques. Also, I gained an insight into the culture and mentality of the local people, who I found to be very kind and cooperative.
After returning from London I started using the computer program, Desk Top Publishing. The results of my overseas training and the new computer program further improved the quality of the paper.
In order to publish material with quality news print, I needed a Laser Printer which was very expensive. During a trip to the US, a Japanese citizen . who was interested in the Afghanistan cause kindly donated the money for purchasing the Laser Printer. In January,1988, Afghanews was printed for the first, time with quality news print. This consequently reduced our mailing and printing costs.
As a historical record of Afghanews, we have bounded the issues for each year, and given them to important libraries, research centers and various individuals interested in Afghanistan.
The two main problems conffont-
Turn to page (8)	~