AFGHANews Vol 7, No 23, December 1,1991, page ©
Dear Sir.
For a number of years your representative in the Netherlands, Mr.
amim Tayeb, has been sending me copies of AFGHANews. Some time ago, I wrote an article in our party magazine on the war in your country.
Now that the communists are defeated, at least in the cento1 of the Russian Empire, the present leadership should stop supporting the Kabul regime.
I imagine my party friends in Moscow have so many things to do these days, in replacing the old government structure with a democratic one, that they do not give the war against your country any priority, and also because of a possible lack of knowledge due to former communist censorship. Therefore, I decided to write a letter to them. I know one of the leaders of the Russian Federation for the Social-Democratic Party very well, Oleg lumyantsev, for whom I once organized a computer system to take home, laid for by the socialist faction of the European Parliament
I asked Mr. Tayeb to write a letter to the SDPRF, which I received from tim. 1 sent it to Mr. Wolkov, member of the Supreme Soviet of the SDPRF. I hope this will contribute to ending the war in your country.
In July and August I visited South Africa for 6 weeks. In Cape Town, I heard an impressive speech by Imam Ahmad Cassiem, chairman of the Muslim liberation movement QIBLA, co-operating with the Pan-Africanist Congress of Azania, one of the three liberation movements of South Africa.
I'm sending him a number of copies of AFGHANews, because I feel they are in a liberation struggle similar to yours. With best wishes for your struggle for a free Afghanistan.
Herbart Ruitenberg
Member, Foreign Affairs
Committee
PvdA Dutch Social-Democratic
Party - The Hague party branch
TEXT OF THE LETTER SENT TO A SOVIET MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT:
Dear Wolkov,
Please accept my congratulations on the historic victory you and the oth-
er democratic currents won on the days 19-21 August. These were decisive days for Russia, for Europe and for democracy in the world. The reason for writing this letter is:
The war in Afghanistan, unleashed by the minority communists in Afghanistan and the USSR, is continuing. Support for the war is still going from the USSR to Afghanistan, in amounts estimated between US $ 50 million and 400 million a month. This support should be stopped immediately.
I met Tamim Tayeb, the representative of Jami'at Islami Afghanistan (JIA) in the Netherlands. JIA is one of the seven parties of the Afghan liberation movement. He gave me a letter written by him to you and the other democratic forces in the Soviet Union.
I attach the letter.
For several years I have received AFGHANews, the fortnightly publication of JIA. It reports on the political and the military side of the war they fight. I knew JIA was pretty strong in the Panjshir valley, where their famous commander, Ahmad Shah Masood, resides. Recently I see that they are defeating the Kabul regime forces all along the border with Tajikistan. I enclose an article from the 15 August issue that I received. JIA cooperates with other parties in the field.
I hope the SPDRF will take the initiative to have this horrible war stopped as soon as possible, by cutting off all support to the regime in Kabul, and to come to an agreement with the Afghan resistance. Apart from other subjects, there is the need for maps of all the minefields the communist troops have been laying since 1979. The Soviet Army should have them.
With best wishes for your work.
Herbart Ruitenberg
Dear Sin
Allow me to pay homage to the high journalistic quality of the newspaper you are publishing, AFGHANews. As director of Avicen, and as a friend of Afghans supporting your struggle since 1979,1 would be honored if you would accept a donation of Rs. 5,000.
Accept my best wishes of success.
Dr. Ph. Truze
Director Avicen
Peshawar
awarded death sentences to six people for kidnapping a UN official and the three Afghans accompanying [him. The UN officials, John Stevens, was kidnapped oo August 1 on tbe| Xohat Road. He was recovered by the [government from the Jamrud area of &e Khyber Agency.	.'vl .■
tm <■■■■•••	•
(China will give a grant of three] million Yuan (about $1.2 million} for Afghan refugees in Pakistan. This [was announced during the Chinese president's visit to Islamabad. ■
IHr ••• I
(George Stevenson, a member of a European Parliament delegation, expressed concern over the declining relief assistance to Afghan refugees [in Pakistan during his visit to a refugee camp near Peshawar on lfoysmber4.	..	(
(The Commissioner for Afghan
[Refugees biiefed the delegation on
•H
donated
1 :
^a|H^^ -.!tooated'T ten million : Afghanis (S 10,000) for a libraiy to be built in a mosque in Chindavol Distric t of the Kabul city. He also instructed the mayor of Kabul to repair Hazrat Abbas, a shrine of the Shia community in the same district. The move is designed to appease Kabul’s Sbia community.
'	•••	'	fT*
Asghar Khan, the head of the National Salvation Society, based in
logue, as envisaged by the UN five-|
I point plan, is difficult because not] .only the Mujahideen buuhejnajority] ■of the Afghan people bold the PDPA
with it He said talks with Ore Kabul [regime could take place indirectly!
working for the re-
turn to power of Zahir Shah.
> -■ '
US in the UN headquarters have
the agreement on negative symmetry by satellite surveillance. There wifl be no mom taring teams stationed (along the borders or at airports in Afghanistan because of the cost such tan operation would require, m