HFGHflHews Uol A, No 7, April 1 J 088, PfiGE 6
From the diary of Jehad
      An embarrassing argument proves a point
  ¥E had walked for the whole day. It was the second day of our trip, and ail of us were very tired.
  Assadullali was the chief of the group which included Feraydoon Ganjoor, an Iranian! journalist living in Switzerland, some merchants and our horsemen.
Pabrook
  At about 9 O'clock ve reached a place called Dehan-Pabrook. There was a tea house located at the junction of two rivers, a pleasant place to pass the night.
  Assad who was experienced in arranging things managed to find a sheep to prepare the dinner for the group. After offering our prayers we ordered green tea which is very relaxing after a long journey.
Kebab
  An hour later Assadullah called us by name to go to the side of the river to have our dinner. He had prepared Kebab which was delicious. The specially-prepared food was for a few people which included me and Ganjoor. The rest of the group were supposed to take their dinner inside the teahouse.
  ¥hen we returned to the teahouse the rest of the group were
 protesting at the way they had been treated. The argument between Assadullah and those who had remained in the teahouse continued for some times. The horsemen were shouting at Assadullali and were accusing him of misusing his position as an official of Jami'at political party to get better food.
 Sleeping bag
  The situation was very embarrassing because of the presence of a guest from Iran. I thought the argument about food and shouting at each other might give the wrong impression to Ganjoor about the people of Afghanistan and the cause. I took my sleeping bag and retreated to a spot close to the river not to hear what was going on.
  In the morning when I woke up, 1 was still feeling embarrassed because our people had fought each other over food in front of a guest from Iran.
 Ganjoor
  I decided to leave earlier not to face tire guests. After an hour walk along a narrow valley I saw Ganjoor trying to reach me. 1 tried to walk faster to. keep distance with him but was tired and could not go fast. When we were at a close distance.
 Ganjoor said: “Ishaq, what happened last night was a good thing." I was surprised. What was good about argument over food in front of a guest ? He went on to say that last night's argument, showed a positive change in the way of thinking of ordinary men in Afghanistan.
  He said that in the past the ordinary people in Afghanistan had been afraid of defending themselves against government officials.
 But last night ordinary men were protesting against a man who had an important position in the party and demanding equal treatment. Now they are not willing to stay silent if they saw somebody doing wrong even if he had an important position, he said.
 Wisdom
  I was impressed by the wisdom of our guest and started to feel better after anight of em barrassment.
  Indeed, the communist coup of 1978 and then the Soviet invasion of 1979 gave an opportunity to the common people to liberate themselves from the tyranny of oppressive institutions and this profound change will shape the future system of government in Afghanistan.