AFGHANews Vol 8, No 18 & 19, October 1,1992, page ©
President Rabbani attends NAM Summit in Jakarta
President Rabbani attended the 10th Summit of NAM held in Jakarta from September 1-6.
Prof. Rabbani left for Jakarta two days after'a ceasefire =was agreed between the forces of government and Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar.
Since civilian flights had not been resumed from Kabul, the President flew to Mazar to take a special flight of Ariana Afghan Airlines to Jakarta.
President Rabbani delivered a wide-ranging speech in which he threw light on the domestic and foreign policies of the Islamic state, Afghanistan’s view on the rule of non-aligned movement after the fall of the Soviet Union, and the current situation in Afghanistan with special reference to the rocket attacks on Kabul.
He said that the Islamic States of Afghanistan believed that NAM still had a role to play but with a change of its methodology to cope with the requirements of the ti/ne.
Describing the Mujahideen victory in Afghanistan as an historic achievement, Prof. Rabbani said the victory was achieved by giving great sacrifices and suffering heavy losses by the people of Afghanistan.
On the domestic policies of the Islamic State of Afghanistan, he said that attention was paid to restoration of law and order and the protection of people's rights. Serious consideration was given towards the reconstruction of the country, clearing mine fields and rehabilitation of millions of Afghan refugees, he said.
He said the- Islamic government was committed to fight against the production and trade of narcotics.
On the foreign policy of the. Islamic State, he said his country would struggle, for international peace are fully respected the United Nations charter, the Universal Declaration on human rights and all accepted norms of the world body.
He said Afghanistan would pursue the line of positive and active neutrality, free judgement in international affairs, maintain solidarity with the Non-aligned Movement and the Organization of Islamic Conference.
He said the Islamic State of Afghanistan has pledged adherence to all international agreements and supports all national liberation movements
and stands against every form of colonialism.
Expressing the desire, to improve and strengthen Afghanistan’s relations with neighboring, Islamic and other countries which supported Jehad, he said that Afghanistan wished to establish friendly relations with the Russian Federation which_ is the inheritor of the former Soviet	Union.
Afghanistan wanted the Russian Federation to participate in the reconstruction of Afghanistan and to compensate for the destruction caused by Soviet armed intervention in Afghanistan, he added.
About the rocket attacks on Kabul, Rabbani said that the Islamic government was making tireless efforts to bring security to the country but some subversive elements had resorted to violent and savage rocket attacks on Kabul which inflicted heavy life and material losses. That also caused' acute power, fuel, water, food and medical supply shortages, he added.
Rabbani said the ceasefire .agreement was signed after the attackers faced a shameful, defeat and he expressed confidence that such attacks were doomed to failure in the future.
Criticizing the labeling of the recent rocket attack on Kabul by some NAM delegates as civil war, he said w hat happened was only the war of one particular person and some -criminal elements supporting him against the legitimate government in defiance of the entire Afghan Nation.
He asked the United Nations, the Non-Aligned Movement, the Organization of Islamic Countries (OIC) and other international organizations to send urgent humanitarian assistance to the people of Kabul.
Prof. Rabbani held talks with heads of delegations from several countries and addressed a press conference.
He met with the presidents of Iran, Indonesia, Sudan, Tunisia and "the Maldives, the Prime Minister of Pakistan, the head of state of Palestine, the Vice President of Syria, foreign ministers of Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Amman and 7 the Deputy Foreign Minister of Libya. He also met with Lhc UN Secretary-General Dr. Boutros Ghali and discussed the situation in Afghanistan and the possibility of sending relief aid to Kabul.
Editorial
From page (4)
Absence of diplomats loyal tp the Islamic government at the UN is the reason for UN’s lack of understanding the situation in Afghanistan. The evacuation of the UN officials at the time they were needed the most and the extremely negative and unrealistic views expressed by the UN special: reporter on human rights7 situation in Afghanistan, Dr. Ermacora, about the situation in Kabul are clear evidences to the fact that the Islamic government has failed to keep the UN informed about developments in Afghanistan.
Despite all these problems, why the leaders of the country did not act quickly to appoint Afghan ambassadors abroad?
Part of the problems arises from the Peshawar accord. The accord predicts three transitional phases before formation of an elected government. Leaders tend to act with caution during the transitional period. But the question is: Who will represent Afghanistan during two critical years of transitional period?
The other, problem is the chronicle problem of differences between the parties within the government. The Leadership Council, the President and the Foreign Ministry have failed to act jointly and promptly -to appoint good people as the Afghan ambassadors abroad. The longer they fail to do so, the more Afghanistan and its people will suffer. Parties and leaders must put the interest of the country above all other considerations. •
;	Apology!
I Due to destruction of the Slate | Printing Press and disruption of elec-j tricity and postal services by rocket I attacks, at least four issues of j AFGHANews could not be printed j on time. We hope our readers will forgive us for. any delays.
_____________________  J
il.
Help us publish
AFGHANews!
Please send your donations to :
Account No. 55088 Bank Millie Afghan Wazir Akber Khan Br. KABUL - AFGHANISTAN