AFGHANews Vol 5, No 8, April 15,1989, page Q
Holy month | of Ramazan starts
April 6th marked the beginning of the holy month of Ramazan. Muslims all pver the world started to fast for one month.
This month has a special place in the Islamic calendar because of fasting and because Almighty Allah revealed the Quran, the holy book of the Muslims, to Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) during this month.
According to Islamic Sharia, fasting is abstaining by an adult Muslim from eating, drinking and sexual intercourse from dawn to sunset. A person who observes fasting is supposed to abandon doing, saying, hearing and seeing evil and vain acts.
Fasting is one of the 5 pillars of the Islamic faith; A Muslim who fails to fast during the month of Ramazan without a religiously-accepted reason, commits a big sin.
During Ramazan nights, Muslims say additional prayers, called Tarawaih, At the end of Ramazan each Muslim who has the financial ability has to pay a certain amount of money on behalf of all his family members to the poor and the needy.
Fasting has many spiritual and physical benefits. It teaches a person self-control and trains him to be patient in the face of difficulties. It creates fear of God in the heart of the believer. Fear of God serves as an internal police force which stops the individual from doing wrong even when he is alone.
Fasting with the rest of the Islamic community and praying in congregation gives the individual a sense of community. Fasting reminds the rich of the poor, and the ruler of the subjects.
Recitation of holy Quran, in Tarawaih prayers, reminds the believers of their duties towards their Creator and their community.
Ramazan ends with celebrations called EidL People get together to say congregational prayers. It is a happy moment for all.
Islam allowes the sick, women having their monthly period, and those who have given birth to new children, travellers. Mujahideen engaged in active fighting and the vulnerable elderly to eat during the month of Ramazan, but have to fast when it is
convenient for them.
Before the war Ramazan was observed with full sanctity in Afghanistan. People gathered in mosques to eat after sunset. Guns were fired to announce the sunset People got up late at night to eat Some people kept cocks to wake them up. Ibis was before the alarm clocks had become a common. Guns were fired and drums were beaten to wake the whole community. The call for morning prayers ended eating and people rushed to the mosques to say their morning (Fajre) prayers.
The coup of 1978 and the invasion of 1979 changed the |normal way of UfeFeople became refugees, families were divided and a large number of villages were destroyed and mosques became empty. The hustle and bustle of Ramazan gave place to war activities.
The tragedy still continues. A communist regime is in power in Kabul and Jehad still continues. People look forward to the day when an Islamic government will be established in the country and the war will come to an end. They look forward to fasting in, peace and celebrating their religious and na-
tional days Afghanistan.
in a
free Islamic
Reconstruction of Panjshir
From page (8)
ing roads and bridges form an important part of his reconstruction work.
Revival of agriculture and animal husbandly are the two other important things which concern his committee. Preparatory work for the reconstruction of irrigation channels, and digging of new channels has started. Some help has been given to the local villagers to repair their irrigation channels.
Kamaluddin said that mines have created problems for people and animals in the valley. He asked Sadruddin Agha Khan to get maps of minefields from the Russians who planted the mines. Without such maps, talk about cleaning mines is useless, he added.
Panjshir had a population of over 100,000 people before the war. As a result of successive offensives launched by the Soviets, and the occupation of half of the valley for several years the people of the valley have become refugees. Most of them live as internal refugees in the neighboring valleys while a small percentage of them came to Pakistan.
Reconstruction of the devastated valley is a roust for the return of the refugees and the resumption of normal life.
US appoints special envoy to Mujahideen
itedj S
The United I S tates has decided to appoint a special envoy to the Mujahideen. The envoy, with the rank of ambassador, will be based in Washington but will make frequent trips to Pakistan, where the Mujahideen are| based.
Peter Tomsen US charge d'affairs in Beijing was recommended by the State Department to president Bush.
Appointment of the special envoy will not be equal to recognition of the interim government of the Mujahideen.
The US government has set criteria for the recognition of the interim government of the Mujahideen in which control over a large portion of territory and creation of a civil administration are included.
It is reported that the US government is also considering breaking diplomatic ties with the communist regime in Kabul.
The US withdrew its diplomats from Kabul before February 15, the deadline for the Soviet troop withdrawal, on security grounds.
US officials in the pasts justified diplomatic ties with the regime on the pound that the presence of their diplomats in Kabul provided them with information they needed.
Supporters of the Mujahideen in Congress have been putting pressure on the administration to sever ties with the communist regime in Kabul.
The Kabul regime has denounced the US decision to appoint a special envoy to the Mujahideen interim government and has called it interference in the affairs of Afghanistan and a violation of the Geneva accords.