Four thousand ships moved Allied troops across the English Channel to the beaches of Normandy on June 6, 1944, D-Day (invasion day). A gigantic gun and rocket bombardment from Allied warships softened up resistance in the landing areas, while planes swept the skies clear of German defenders and attacked German troops on the ground. Paratroops and glider-borne troops had landed in the rear the night before the invasion, disrupting German defenses and capturing strategic locations.

The invasion came as a surprise to the Germans. They had expected a landing at Calais and were convinced that the Normandy landings were merely a diversion to pull defenders away from the site of the real invasion, which would occur later. By the time Hitler committed his heavy panzer units, a firm beachhead had already been established. Nonetheless, there was heavy fighting before the beaches were secured, particularly at Omaha Beach in the American sector. (The beaches attacked by American troops were code-named Omaha and Utah, and those attacked by British and Canadian troops were called Gold, Juno, and Sword.)

The British troops struck out toward Caen, while the American First Army moved to capture the port of Cherbourg. Cherbourg's port facilities were needed to handle the enormous shipments of supplies required to keep the troops on the offensive. To unload ships until the port could be taken, breakwaters were constructed off the invasion beaches by sinking old ships and huge prefabricated caissons to form artificial harbors, which were code-named Mulberries. Despite being damaged by a storm on June 19, these facilities were a great success.

The Allied offensive was slowed by the dense hedgerows of the French countryside. which provided excellent defensive positions for the German troops. After heavy fighting and great losses, Cherbourg was taken on June 27. Strong German resistance held the British outside Caen until July 9. Meanwhile the Americans probed southward, seeking a break in the German lines.