The D-Day Invasion of Normandy laid a beachhead for the Allies on the Western Front of Europe. This battle was the single most important battle on the Western front because a defeat would have been tragic for Allied morale. D-Day is the military codeword for the paratrooper operations on the night of June 5 and the beach landings on the morning of June 6 in Normandy. On the morning of June 6, 1944, it was cloudy and pouring rain. The tide was low, and thousands of soldiers from America, Britain, Canada, and many other countries were prepared to storm the beaches. The battle was going to be fierce, and thousands of men would lose their lives fighting.
                  
       
        
For one to understand D-day, one must first understand World War II. The war started on September 1, 1939, when Germany invaded Poland with Russia. The Russians had signed a non-aggression pact with Germany on August 23, 1939. The British and the French were outraged because of the invasion and declared war on Germany. Poland was taken over in as little as seventeen days. Germany also invaded France and the Low Countries on May 8, 1940. The Low Countries were invaded by Germany to get around the Maginot Line, which was a huge fortification stretching the whole distance of the French-German border, but not to the Low Countries. The surprise confused the French Army, and the French surrendered on June 22. The British forces that went to protect France were forced to retreat at the port of Dunkirk. This retreat was an embarrassment for the British army, and they planned to have revenge by invading France and taking it back from Germany. However, Germany was not the only aggressor.
                        
On the morning of December 7, 1941, Japan attacked the American fleet at Pearl Harbor. The attack on Pearl Harbor caused a declaration of war by Congress the next day. Three days later, Germany and Italy declared war on the United States. The United States, now at war, beat the Germans in North Africa and invaded Italy in 1942-1944 with the British. On June 4, 1944, two days before D-Day, the Allies captured Rome. The Germans launched an invasion of Russia, code-named Operation Barbarossa, in June of 1941. However, the invasion was pushed back by the Russians with great victories at Kursk and Stalingrad, and the Russians made an immediate counterattack in December of 1941­­.  The Russians did not want to fight the whole German Army alone. They asked for a British-American invasion of Western Europe at the Conferences of Alta and Teheran. Britain and America answered Russia’s call. Their plan was to liberate Western Europe, code-named Operation Overlord, and its first step was in Normandy.
                            
            Before the Allies could plan an invasion, they had to get a supreme commander. The Americans and the British had argued about this for months until they decided that General Dwight D. Eisenhower was the Supreme Commander with British generals as his chiefs of staff. A difference in opinion by the American and the British generals was evident. The Americans favored invading at Calais. The British Chiefs of Staff, already not having a high regard for Eisenhower, favored invading at Normandy. The choice was Normandy, but Calais still played a part. The fictitious U.S. 1st Army, led by General George S. Patton, placed dummy installations on the beaches of Calais. The dummy installations caused speculation by the German high command.
                   
            The German commanders did expect an invasion, but they did not know where it would take place. Some thought that the assault would be on Norway because the British 4th Army was stationed in Scotland. Adolf Hitler and Field Marshall von Rundstedt believed the invasion spot would be at Calais. General Rommel, von Rundstedt’s inferior, believed that an invasion would be at Normandy. Since Rommel was von Rundstedt’s inferior, Rommel’s opinion was not accepted. It was these clear faults in intelligence by the German high command that made them ill prepared for an invasion at Normandy on June 6.